---
title: Franny and Zooey by J.D. Salinger
layout: default
categories: ['fuz', 'baq']
tags: ['foo', 'bar']

---

# Annotations for Franny and Zooey by J.D. Salinger

This is not the complete text. Below are select excerpts from _Franny and Zooey_ with accompanying footnotes.

## Epigram

> As nearly as possible in the spirit of Matthew Salinger,<br/>
> age one, urging a luncheon companion to accept a cool lima bean,<br/>
> I urge my editor, mentor and (heaven help him) closest friend,<br/>
> <mark>William Shawn</mark>[^shawn], genius domus of The New Yorker, lover of the long shot,<br/>
> protector of the unprolific, defender of the hopelessly flamboyant,<br/>
> most unreasonably modest of born great artist-editors,<br/>
> to accept this pretty skimpy-looking book.


## <mark>Franny</mark>[^fullfranny]

> For ten minutes or more, he had deliberately been standing just out of conversation range of the other boys, his back against the free <mark>Christian Science</mark>[^christianscience] literature rack, his ungloved hands in his coat pockets.

> I think I'm beginning to look down on all poets except <mark>Sappho</mark>[^sappho]. I've been reading her like mad and no vulgar remarks, please. I may even do my term thing on her if I decide to go out for honors and if I can get the moron they assigned me as an advisor to let me. 'Delicate <mark>Adonis</mark>[^adonis] is dying, <mark>Cytherea</mark>[^cytherea], what shall we do? Beat your breasts, maidens, and rend your tunics.' Isn't that _marvellous_? She keeps _doing_ that, too.

> Lane was about halfway through this particular reading of the letter when he was interrupted-intruded upon, trespassed upon-by a burly-set young man named Ray Sorenson. who wanted to know if Lane knew what this bastard <mark>Rilke</mark>[^rilke] was all about. Lane and Sorenson were both in Modern European Literature 251 (open to seniors and graduate students only) and had been assigned the Fourth of Rilke's <mark>"Duino Elegies"</mark>[^duinoelegies] for Monday.

> "I just told you. I just got through saying. This guy Brughman is a big <mark>Flaubert</mark>[^flaubert] man. Or at least I thought he was."

>Lane nodded again. "I mean I didn't say anything too goddam world-shaking or anything like that." He shifted his position in the chair. "But-I don't know-I think the emphasis I put on why he was so neurotically attracted to the <mark>mot juste</mark>[^motjuste] wasn't too bad. I mean in the light of what we know today. Not just psychoanalysis and all that crap, but certainly to a certain extent. You know what I mean. I'm no <mark>Freudian</mark>[^freud] man or anything like that, but certain things you can't just pass over as capital-F Freudian and let them go at that. I mean to a certain extent I think I was perfectly justified to point out that none of the really good boys-<mark>Tolstoy</mark>[^tolstoy], <mark>Dostoevski</mark>[^dostoevsky], <mark>Shakespeare</mark>[^shakespeare], for Chris-sake-were such goddam word-squeezers. They just wrote. Know what I mean?" Lane looked at Franny somewhat expectantly. She seemed to him to have been listening with extra-special intentness.

> Franny saw that he was irritated, and to what extent, but, for the moment, with equal parts of self-disapproval and malice, she felt like speaking her mind. "Well, I don't know what they are around here, but where come from, a section man's a person that takes over a class when the professor isn't there or is busy having a nervous breakdown or is at the dentist or something. He's usually a graduate student or something. Anyway, if it's a course in Russian Literature, say, he comes in, in his little botton-down-collar shirt and striped tie, and starts knocking <mark>Turgenev</mark>[^turgenev] for about a half hour. Then, when he's finished, when he's completely ruined Turgenev for you, he starts talking about <mark>Stendhal</mark>[^stendhal] or somebody he wrote his thesis for his M.A. on. Where I go, the English Department has about ten little section men running around ruining things for [184] people, and they're all so brilliant they can hardly open their mouths-pardon the contradiction. I mean if you get into an argument with them, all they do is get this terribly benign expression on their-"

> "I just quit, that's all," Franny said. "It started embarrassing me. I began to feel like such a nasty little egomaniac." She reflected. "I don't know. It seemed like such poor taste, sort of, to want to act in the first place. I mean all the ego. And I used to hate myself so, when I was in a play, to be backstage after the play was over. All those egos running around feeling terribly charitable and warm. Kissing everybody and wearing their makeup all over the place, and then trying to be horribly natural and friendly when your friends came backstage to see you. I just hated myself.... And the worst part was I was usually sort of ashamed to be in the plays I was in. Especially in summer stock." She looked at Lane. "And I had good parts, so don't look at me that way. It wasn't that. It was just that I would've been ashamed if, say, anybody I respected-my brothers, for example-came and heard me deliver some of the lines I had to say. I used to write certain people and tell them not to come." She reflected again. "Except <mark>Pegeen in 'Playboy,'</mark>[^playboy] last summer. I mean that could have been really nice, only the goon that played the Playboy spoiled any fun it might have been. He was so lyrical-God, was he lyrical!"

> "The little book in my bag?" Franny said. She watched him disjoint a pair of frogs' legs. Then she took a cigarette from the pack on the table and lit it herself. "Oh, I don't know," she said. "It's something called <mark>'The Way of a Pilgrim.'</mark>[^wayofthepilgrim]" She watched Lane eat for a moment. "I got it out of the library. This man that teaches this Religion Survey thing I'm taking this term mentioned it." She dragged on her cigarette. "I've had it out for weeks. I keep forgetting to return it."

> "I don't know. It's peculiar. I mean it's primarily a religious book. In a way, I suppose you could say it's terribly fanatical, but in a way it isn't. I mean it starts out with this peasant- the pilgrim-wanting to find out what it means in the Bible when it says you should pray incessantly. You know. Without stopping. In <mark>Thessalonians</mark>[^thessalonians] or someplace. So he starts out walking all over Russia, looking for somebody who can tell him how to pray incessantly. And what you should say if you do." Franny seemed intensely interested in the way Lane was dismembering his frogs' legs. Her eyes remained fixed on his plate as she spoke. "All he carries with him is this knapsack filled with bread and salt. Then he meets this person called a starets-some sort of terribly advanced religious person-and the starets tells him about a book called the <mark>'Philokalia.'</mark>[^philokalia] Which apparently was written by a group of terribly advanced monks who sort of advocated this really incredible method of praying."

> "Well, as I said, the pilgrim-this simple peasant-started the whole pilgrimage to find out what it means in the Bible when it says you're supposed to pray without ceasing. And then he meets this starets-this very advanced religious person I mentioned, the one who'd been studying the 'Philokalia' for years and years and years." Franny stopped suddenly to reflect, to organize. "Well, the starets tells him about the Jesus Prayer first of all. <mark>'Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me.'</mark>[^jesusprayer] I mean that's what it is. And he explains to him that those are the best words to use when you pray. Especially the word 'mercy,' because it's such a really enormous word and can mean so many things. I mean it doesn't just have to mean mercy." Franny paused to reflect again. She was no longer looking at Lane's plate but over his shoulder. "Anyway," she went on, "the starets tells the pilgrim that if you keep saying that prayer over and over again- you only have to just do it with your lips at first-then eventually what happens, the prayer becomes self-active. Something happens after a while. I don't know what, but something happens, and the words get synchronized with the person's heartbeats, and then you're actually praying without ceasing. Which has a really tremendous, mystical effect on your whole outlook. I mean that's the whole point of it, more or less. I mean you [198] do it to purify your whole outlook and get an absolutely new conception of what everything's about."

> "As a matter of fact, that makes absolute sense," Franny said, "because in the <mark>Nembutsu</mark>[^nembutsu] sects of <mark>Buddhism</mark>[^buddhism], people keep saying <mark>'Namu Amida Butsu'</mark>[^namuamidabutsu] over and over again-which means 'Praises to the Buddha' or something like that-and the same thing happens. The exact same-"

> Franny gave a minimal glance down at her left hand, and dropped the stub of her still-burning cigarette into the ashtray. "The same thing happens in <mark>'The Cloud of Unknowing,'</mark>[^cloudofunknowing] too. Just with the word 'God.' I mean you just keep saying the word 'God.'" She looked at Lane more directly than she had in several minutes. "I mean the point is did you ever hear anything so fascinating in your life, in a way? I mean it's so hard to just say it's absolute coincidence and then just let it go at that- that's what's so fascinating to me. At least, that's what's so terribly-" She broke off. Lane was shifting restively in his chair, [199] and there was an expression on his face-a matter of raised eyebrows, chiefly-that she knew very well. "What's the matter?" she asked.


## <mark>Zooey</mark>[^fullzooey]

> To get straight to the worst, what I'm about to offer isn't really a short story at all but a sort of prose home movie, and those who have seen the footage have strongly advised me against nurturing any elaborate distribution plans for it. The dissenting group, it's my privilege and headache to divulge, consists of the three featured players themselves, two female, one male. We'll take the leading lady first, who, I believe, would prefer to be briefly described as a languid, sophisticated type. She feels that things might have gone along well enough if I'd just done something about a fifteen- or twenty-minute scene in which she blows her nose several times-snipped it out, I gather. She says it's disgusting to watch somebody keep blowing her nose. The other lady of the ensemble, a svelte twilight soubrette, objects to my having, so to speak, photographed her in her old housecoat. Neither of these two lovelies (as they've hinted they'd [203] like to be called) takes any very shrill exception to my over-all exploitive purposes. For a terribly simple reason, really. If, to me, a somewhat reddening one. They know from experience that I burst into tears at the first harsh or remonstrative word. It's the leading man, however, who has made the most eloquent appeal to me to call off the production. He feels that the plot hinges on mysticism, or religious mystification-in any case, he makes it very clear," a too vividly apparent transcendent element of sorts, which he says he's worried can only expedite, move up, the day and hour of my professional undoing. People are already shaking their heads over me, and any immediate further professional use on my part of the word "God," except as a familiar, healthy American expletive, will be taken-or, rather, confirmed -as the very worst kind of name-dropping and a sure sign that I'm going straight to the dogs. Which is, of course, something to give any normal fainthearted man, and particularly writing man, pause. And it does. But only pause. For a point of objection, however eloquent, is only as good as it is applicable. The fact is, I've been producing prose home movies, off and on, since I was fifteen. Somewhere in <mark>"The Great Gatsby"</mark>[^greatgatsby] (which was my <mark>"Tom Sawyer"</mark>[^tomsawyer] when I was twelve), the youthful narrator remarks that everybody suspects himself of having at least one of the <mark>cardinal virtues</mark>[^cardinalvirtue], and he goes on to say that he thinks his, bless his heart, is honesty. Mine, I think, is that I know the difference between a mystical story and a love story. I say that my current offering isn't a mystical story, or a religiously mystifying story, at all. I say it's a compound, or multiple, love story, pure and complicated.

> By profession, Zooey was an actor, a leading man, in television, and had been for a little more than three years. He was, in fact, as "sought after" (and, according to vague second-hand reports that reached his family, as highly paid) as a young leading man in television perhaps can be who isn't at the same time a Hollywood or Broadway star with a ready-made national reputation. But possibly either of these statements, without elaboration, can lead to an overly clearcut line of conjecture. As it happened, Zooey had made a formal and serious debut as a public performer at the age of seven. He was the second youngest of what had originally been seven) brothers and sisters _(The aesthetic evil of a footnote seems in order just here, I'm afraid. In all that follows, only the two youngest of the seven children will be directly seen or heard. The remaining five, however, the senior five, will be stalking in and out of the plot with considerable frequency, like so many Banquo's ghosts. The reader, then, may care to know at the outset that in 1955 the eldest of the Glass children, Seymour, had been dead almost seven years. He committed suicide while vacationing in Florida with his wife. If alive, he would have been thirty-eight in 1955. The second-eldest child, Buddy, was what is known in campus-catalogue parlance as "writer-in-residence" at a girls' junior college in upper New York State. He lived alone, in a small, unwinterized, unelectrified house about a quarter of a mile away from a rather popular ski-run. The next-eldest of the children, Boo Boo, was married and the mother of three children. In November, 1955, she was travelling in Europe with her husband and all three of their children. In order of age, the twins, Walt and Waker, come after Boo Boo. Walt had been dead just over ten years. He was killed in a freakish explosion while he was with the Army of Occupation in Japan. Waker, his junior by some twelve minutes, was a Roman Catholic priest, and in November, 1955, he was in Ecuador, attending a Jesuit conference of some kind.)_ - five [206] boys and two girls-all of whom, at rather conveniently spaced intervals during childhood, had been heard regularly on a network radio program, a children's quiz show called "It's a Wise Child." An age difference of almost eighteen years between the eldest of the Glass children, Seymour, and the youngest, Franny, had helped very considerably to allow the family to reserve a kind of dynastic seating arrangement at the "Wise Child" microphones, which lasted just over sixteen years-from 1927 well into 1943, a span of years connecting the Charleston and B-17 Eras. (All this data, I think, is to some degree relevant.) For all the gaps and years between their individual heydays on the program, it may be said (with few, and no really important, reservations) that all seven of the children had managed to answer over the air a prodigious number of alternately deadly-bookish and deadly-cute questions-sent in by listeners-with a freshness, an aplomb, that was considered unique in commercial radio. Public response to the children was often hot and never tepid. In general, listeners were divided into two, curiously restive camps: those who held that the Glasses were a bunch of insufferably "superior" little bastards that should have been drowned or gassed at birth, and those who held that they were bona-fide underage wits and savants, of an uncommon, if unenviable, order. At this writing (1957), there are former listeners to <mark>"It's a Wise Child"</mark>[^itsawisechild] who remember, with basically astonishing accuracy, many of the individual performances of each of the seven children. In this same thinning but still oddly coterie-like [207] group, the consensus is that, of all the Glass children, the eldest boy, Seymour, back in the late twenties and early thirties, had been the "best" to hear, the most consistently "rewarding." After Seymour, Zooey, the youngest boy in the family, is generally placed second in order of preference, or appeal. And since we have a singularly workaday interest in Zooey here, it may be appended that, as an ex-panelist on "It's a Wise Child," he had one almanaclike distinction among (or over) his brothers and sisters. Off and on, during their broadcasting years, all seven of the children had been fair game for the kind of child psychologist or professional educator who takes a special interest in extra-precocious children. In this cause, or service, Zooey had been, of all the Glasses, hands down, the most voraciously examined, interviewed, and poked at. Very notably, with no exceptions that I know of, his experiences in the apparently divergent fields of clinical, social, and newsstand psychology had been costly for him, as though the places where he was examined had been uniformly alive with either highly contagious traumas or just plain old-fashioned germs. For example, in 1942 (with the everlasting disapproval of his two eldest brothers, both of whom were in the Army at the time) he had been tested by one research group alone in Boston, on five separate occasions. (He was twelve during most of the sessions, and it's possible that the train rides-ten of them-held some attraction for him, at least in the beginning.) The main purpose of the five tests, one gathered, was to isolate and study, if possible, the source of Zooey's precocious wit and fancy. At the end of the fifth test, the subject was sent home to New York with three or four aspirins in an engraved envelope for his sniffles, which turned out to be bronchial pneumonia. Some six weeks later, a long-distance call came through from Boston at eleven-thirty at night, with much dropping of small coins in an ordinary pay phone, and an unidentified voice-with no intention, persumably, of sounding pedantically waggish-informed Mr. and Mrs. Glass that their son Zooey, at twelve, had an English vocabulary on an exact par with <mark>Mary Baker Eddy's</mark>[^marybakereddy], if he could be urged to use it.

> I've just finished decoding a long letter that came from Mother this morning, all about you and General Eisenhower's smile and small boys in the Daily News who fall down elevator shafts and when am I going to have my phone in New York taken out and get one installed up here in the country, where I really need it. Surely the only woman in the world who can write a letter in invisible italics. Dear Bessie. I get five hundred words of copy from her like clockwork every three months on the subject of my poor old private phone and how stupid it is to pay Good Money every month for something nobody's ever even around to use any more. Which is really a big fat lie. When I'm in town, I invariably sit talking by the hour with my old friend <mark>Yama, the God of Death</mark>[^yamagodofdeath], and a private phone's a must for our little chats. Anyway, please tell her I haven't changed my mind. I love that old phone with a passion. It was the only really private property Seymour and I ever had in Bessie's entire <mark>kibbutz</mark>[^kibbutz]. It's also essential to my inner harmony to see Seymour's listing in the goddam phone book every year. I like to browse through the G's confidently. Be a good boy and" pass that message along for me. Not quite word for word, but nicely. Be kinder to Bessie, Zooey, when you can. I don't think I mean because she's our mother, but because she's weary. You will after you're thirty or so, when everybody slows down [209] a little (even you, maybe), but try harder now. It isn't enough to treat her with the doting brutality of an apache dancer toward his partner-which she understands, incidentally, whether you think so or not. You forget that she thrives on sentimentality almost as much as Les does.

> I do think your case is a lot different from mine. Anyway, I don't think I'm really on Bessie's side. If it's Security you want, or that Bessie wants for you, your M.A. will at least always qualify you to pass out logarithm tables at any dreary boys' prep school in the country, and most colleges. On the other hand, your beautiful Greek will do you almost no good at all on any good-size campus unless you have a Ph.D., living as we do in a brass-hat, brass-mortarboard world. (Of course, you can always move to Athens. Sunny old Athens.) But the more I think of it, the more I think to hell with more degrees for you. The fact is, if you want to know, I can't help thinking you'd make a damn site better-adjusted actor if Seymour and I hadn't thrown in the <mark>Upanishads</mark>[^upanishads] and the <mark>Diamond Sutra</mark>[^diamondsutra] and <mark>Eckhart</mark>[^eckhart] and all our other old loves with the rest of your recommended home reading when you were small. By rights, an actor should travel fairly light. When we were kids, S. and I once had a beautiful lunch with <mark>John Barrymore</mark>[^johnbarrymore]. He was bright as hell, and full of lore, but he wasn't burdened down with any of the cumbersome luggage of a too formal education. I mention this because I was talking to a rather pompous Orientalist over the weekend, and at one point, during a very deep, metaphysical lull in the conversation, I told him I had a little brother who once got over an unhappy love affair by trying to translate the <mark>Mundaka Upanishad</mark>[^mundakaupanishad] into classical Greek. (He laughed uproariously-you know the way Orientalists laugh.)

> I wish to God I had some idea what will happen to you as an actor. You're a born one, certainly. Even our Bessie knows that. And surely you and Franny are the only beauties [211] in the family. But where will you act? Have you thought about it? The movies? If so, I'm scared stiff that if ever you gain any weight you'll be as victimized as the next young actor into contributing to the reliable Hollywood amalgam of prizefighter and mystic, gunman and underprivileged child, cowhand and Man's Conscience, and the rest. Will you be content with that standard box-office schmalz? Or will you dream of something a little more cosmic-<mark>zum Beispiel</mark>[^zumbeispiel], playing Pierre or Andrey in a Technicolor production of <mark>War and Peace</mark>[^warandeace], with stunning battlefield scenes, and all the nuances of characterization left out (on the ground that they're novelistic and unphotogenic), and <mark>Anna Magnani</mark>[^annamagnani] daringly cast as Natasha (just to keep the production classy and Honest), and gorgeous incidental music by Dmitri Popkin, and all the male leads intermittently rippling their jaw muscles to show they're under great emotional stress, and a <mark>World Premiere at the Winter Garden</mark>[^wintergarden], under floodlights, with Molotov and <mark>Milton Berle</mark>[^miltonberle] and <mark>Governor Dewey</mark>[^governerdewey] introducing the celebrities as they come into the theatre. (By celebrities I mean, of course, old Tolstoy-lovers-<mark>Senator Dirksen</mark>[^senatordirksen], <mark>Zsa Zsa Gabor</mark>[^zsazsagabor], <mark>Gayelord Hauser</mark>[^gayelordhauser], <mark>Georgie Jessel</mark>[^georgiejessel], <mark>Charles of the Ritz</mark>[^charlesoftheritz].) How does that sound? And if you go into the theatre, will you have any illusions about that? Have you ever seen a really beautiful production of, say, <mark>The Cherry Orchard</mark>[^cherryorchard]? Don't say you have. Nobody has. You may have seen "inspired" productions, "competent" productions, but never anything beautiful. Never one where Chekhov's talent is matched, nuance for nuance, idiosyncrasy for idiosyncrasy, by every soul on-stage. You worry hell out of me, Zooey. Forgive the pessimism, if not the sonority. But I know how much you demand from a thing, you little bastard. And I've had the hellish experience of sitting next to you at the theatre. I can so clearly see you demanding something from the performing arts that just isn't residual there. For heaven's sake, be careful.

> Last month, Dean Sheeter (whose name usually transports Franny when I mention it) approached me with his gracious smile and bull whip, and I am now lecturing to the faculty, their wives, and a few oppressively deep-type undergraduates every Friday on <mark>Zen</mark>[^zenbuddhism] and <mark>Mahayana Buddhism</mark>[^mahayanabuddhism]. A feat, I haven't a doubt, that will eventually win me the Eastern Philosophy Chair in Hell. The point is, I'm now on the campus five days a week instead of four, and what with my own work at nights and on weekends, I have almost no time to do any elective thinking. Which is my plaintive way of saying that I do worry about you and Franny when I get a chance, but not nearly so often as I'd like to. What I'm really trying to tell you is that Bessie's letter had very little to do with my sitting down in a sea of ashtrays to write to you today. She shoots me some priority information about you and Franny every week and I never do anything about it, so it isn't that. What brings this on is something that happened to me at the local supermarket today. (No new paragraph. I'll spare you that.) I was standing at the meat counter, waiting for some rib lamb chops to be cut. A young mother and her little girl were waiting around, too. The little girl was about four, and, to pass the time, she leaned her back [213] against the glass showcase and stared up at my unshaven face. I told her she was about the prettiest little girl I'd seen all day. Which made sense to her; she nodded. I said I'd bet she had a lot of boy friends. I got the same nod again. I asked her how many boy friends she had. She held up two fingers. "Two!" I said. "That's a lot of boy friends. What are their names, sweetheart?" Said she, in a piercing voice, "Bobby and Dorothy." I grabbed my lamb chops and ran. But that's exactly what brought on this letter-much more than Bessie's insistence that I write to you about Ph.D.s and acting. That, and a haiku-style poem I found in the hotel room where Seymour shot himself. It was written in pencil on the desk blotter: "The little girl on the plane/ Who turned her doll's head around/ To look at me." With these two things on my mind, I thought as I was driving home from the supermarket that at long last I could write to you and tell you why S. and I took over your and Franny's education as early and as highhandedly as we did. We've never put it into words for you, and I think it's high time one of us did. But now I'm not so sure I can do it. The little girl at the meat counter is gone, and I can't quite see the polite face of the little doll on the plane. And the old horror of being a professional writer, and the usual stench of words that goes with it, is beginning to drive me out of my seat. It seems terribly important to try, though.

> The age differences in the family always seemed to add unnecessarily and perversely to our problems. Not really between S. and the twins and Boo Boo and me, but between the two twosomes of you and Franny and S. and me. Seymour and I were both adults-he was even long out of college-by the time you and Franny were both able to read. At that stage, we had no real urge even to push our favorite classics at the two of you-not, anyway, with the same gusto that we had at the twins or Boo Boo. We knew there's no keeping a born scholar ignorant, and at heart, I think, we didn't really want to, but we were nervous, even frightened, at the statistics on child pedants and academic weisenheimers who grow up into faculty-recreation-room savants. Much, much more important, though, Seymour had already begun [214] to believe (and I agreed with him, as far as I was able to see the point) that education by any name would smell as sweet, and maybe much sweeter, if it didn't begin with a quest for knowledge at all but with a quest, as Zen would put it, for no-knowledge. <mark>Dr. Suzuki</mark>[^suzuki] says somewhere that to be in a state of pure consciousness-<mark>satori</mark>-is[^satori] to be with God before he said, Let there be light. Seymour and I thought it might be a good thing to hold back this light from you and Franny (at least as far as we were able), and all the many lower, more fashionable lighting effects-the arts, sciences, classics, languages-till you were both able at least to conceive of a state of being where the mind knows the source of all light. We thought it would be wonderfully constructive to at least (that is, if our own "limitations" got in the way) tell you as much as we knew about the men-the saints, the <mark>arhats</mark>[^arhat], the <mark>bodhisattvas</mark>[^bodhisattvas], the <mark>jivanmuktas</mark>[^jivanmuktas]-who knew something or everything about this state of being. That is, we wanted you both to know who and what Jesus and Gautama and <mark>Lao-tse</mark>[^loatse] and <mark>Shankaracharya</mark>[^shankaracharya] and <mark>Hui-neng</mark>[^huineng] and <mark>Sri Ramakrishna</mark>[^sriramakrishna], etc., were before you knew too much or anything about Homer or Shakespeare or even Blake or Whitman, let alone George Washington and his cherry tree or the definition of a peninsula or how to parse a sentence. That, anyway, was the big idea. Along with all this, I suppose I'm trying to say that I know how bitterly you resent the years when S. and I were regularly conducting home seminars, and the metaphysical sittings in particular. I just hope that one day -preferably when we're both blind drunk-we can talk about it. (Meantime, I can only say that neither Seymour nor I ever had a notion, that far back, that you were going to grow up into an actor. We should have, no doubt, but we didn't. If we had, I feel certain S. would have tried to do something constructive about it. Surely somewhere there must be a special prep course for Nirvana and points East designed strictly for actors, and I think S. would have found it.) The paragraph should close, but I can't stop muttering. You'll wince at what comes next, but come it must. I think you know that I had the best intentions of checking in now and then after S.'s death to see how you and Franny were holding up. You were [215] eighteen, and I didn't worry about you overly. Although I did hear from a gossipy little snip in one of my classes that you had a reputation in your college dorm for going off and sitting in meditation for ten hours at a time, and that made me think. But Franny was thirteen at the time. I simply couldn't move, though. I was afraid to come home. I wasn't afraid you'd both, in tears, take up a position across the room and fire the complete set of <mark>Max Mueller's Sacred Books of the East</mark>[^sacredbooksoftheeast] at me, one by one. (Which would have been masochistic ecstasy for me, probably.) But I was afraid of the questions (much more than the accusations) you might both put to me. As I remember very well, I let a whole year go by after the funeral before I came back to New York at all. After that, it was easy enough to come in for birthdays and holidays and be reasonably sure that questions would run to when my next book would be finished and had I done any skiing lately, etc. You've even both been up here on many a weekend in the last couple of years, and though we've talked and talked and talked, we've all agreed not to say a word. Today is the first time I've really wanted to speak up. The deeper I get into this goddam letter, the more I lose the courage of my convictions. But I swear to you that I had a perfectly communicable little vision of truth (lamb-chop division) this afternoon the very instant that child told me her boy friends' names were Bobby and Dorothy. Seymour once said to me-in a crosstown bus, of all places-that all legitimate religious study must lead to unlearning the differences, the illusory differences, between boys and girls, animals and stones, day and night, heat and cold. That suddenly hit me at the meat counter, and it seemed a matter of life and death to drive home at seventy miles an hour to get a letter off to you. Oh, God, how I wish I'd grabbed a pencil right there in the supermarket and not trusted the roads home. Maybe it's just as well, though. There are times when I think you've forgiven S. more completely than any of us have. Waker once said something very interesting to me on that subject-in fact, I'm merely parroting what he said to me. He said you were the only one who was bitter about S.'s suicide and [216] the only one who really forgave him for it. The rest of us, he said, were outwardly unbitter and inwardly unforgiving. That may be truer than true. How can I know? All I do know for certain is that I had something happy and exciting to tell you-and on just one side of the paper, double-spaced-and I knew when I got home that it was mostly gone, or all gone, and there was nothing left to do but go through the motions. Lecture you on Ph.D.s and the actor's life. How messy, how funny, and how Seymour himself would have smiled and smiled-and probably assured me, and all of us, not to worry about it.
> "I did." Mrs. Glass gave her garden a final critical glance. "Just please use it." She nudged an unopened box of <mark>Sal Hepatica</mark>[^salhepatica] a little with the trowel of her extended fingers to align it with the other sempervirents in its row, and then closed the cabinet door. She turned on the coldwater tap. "I'd like to know who washes their hands and then doesn't clean the bowl up after them," she said grimly. "This is supposed to be a family of all adults." She increased the pressure of the water and cleansed the bowl briefly but thoroughly with one hand. "I don't suppose you've spoken to your little sister yet," she said, and turned to look at the shower curtain.

> "No, she didn't, Bessie," Zooey said, shaving. "That little book is called <mark>'The Pilgrim Continues His Way,'</mark>[^pilgrimcontinues] and it's a sequel to another little book, called 'The Way of a Pilgrim,' which she's also dragging around with her, and she got both books out of Seymour and Buddy's old room, where they've been sitting on Seymour's desk for as long as I can remember. Jesus God almighty."

> Zooey put a hand on each side of the washbowl and leaned his chest forward a trifle, his eyes on the general background of enamel. For all his slightness of body, he looked at that moment ready and able to push the washbowl straight through the floor. <mark>"The Four Great Vows,"</mark>[^fourgreatvows] he said, and, with rancor, closed his eyes. "However innumerable beings are, I vow to save them; however inexhaustible the passions are, I vow to extinguish them; however immeasurable the Dharmas are, I vow to master them; however incomparable the Buddha-truth is, I vow to attain it.' Yay, team. I know I can do it. Just put me in, coach." His eyes stayed closed. "My God, I've been mumbling that under my breath three meals a day every day of my life since I was ten. I can't eat unless I say it. I tried skipping it once when I was having a lunch with Le Sage. I gagged on a goddam cherrystone clam, doing it." He opened his eyes, frowned, but kept his peculiar stance. "How 'bout getting out of here, now, Bessie?" he said. "I mean it. Lemme finish my goddam ablutions in peace, please." His eyes closed again, and he appeared ready to have another try at pushing the washbowl through the floor. Even though his head was slightly down, a considerable amount of blood had flowed out of his face.

> The Glasses' living room was about as unready to have its walls repainted as a room can be. Franny Glass lay asleep on the couch, with an afghan over her; the "wall-to-wall" carpet had been neither taken up nor folded in at the borders; and the furniture-seemingly, a small warehouse of it-was in its usual static-dynamic distribution. The room was not impressively large, even by Manhattan apartment-house standards, but its accumulated furnishings might have lent a snug appearance to a banquet hall in <mark>Valhalla</mark>[^valhalla]. There was a Steinway grand piano (invariably kept open), three radios (a <mark>1927 Freshman</mark>[^freshmanradio], a <mark>1932 Stromberg-Carlson</mark>[^strombergcarlson], and a <mark>1941 R.C.A.</mark>[^rca]), a twenty-one-inch-screen television set, four table-model phonographs (including a <mark>1920 Victrola</mark>[^victrola], with its speaker still mounted intact, topside), cigarette and magazine tables galore, a regulation-size ping-pong table (mercifully collapsed and stored behind the piano), four comfortable chairs, eight uncomfortable chairs, a twelve-gallon tropical-fish tank (filled to capacity, in every sense of the word, and illuminated by two forty-watt bulbs), a love seat, the couch Franny was occupying, two empty bird cages, a cherry-wood writing table, and an assortment of floor lamps, table [249] lamps and "bridge" lamps that sprang up all over the congested inscape like sumac. A cordon of waist-high bookcases lined three walls, their shelves cram-jammed and literally sagging with books-children's books, textbooks, second-hand books, Book Club books, plus an even more heterogeneous overflow from less communal "annexes" of the apartment. (<mark>"Dracula"</mark>[^dracula] now stood next to <mark>"Elementary Pali,"</mark>[^elementarypali] <mark>"The Boy Allies at the Somme"</mark>[^boyalliesatthesomme] stood next to <mark>"Bolts of Melody,"</mark>[^boltsofmelody] <mark>"The Scarab Murder Case"</mark>[^scarabmurdercase] and <mark>"The Idiot"</mark>[^idiot] were together, <mark>"Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase"</mark>[^nancydrewhiddenstaircase] lay on top of <mark>"Fear and Trembling."</mark>[^fearandtremlbing]) Even if a resolute and unusually stout-hearted team of painters had been able to deal with the bookcases, the walls themselves, directly behind them, might well have made any self-respecting artisan turn in his union card. From the top of the bookcases to within less than a foot of the ceiling, the plaster-a blistery Wedgwood blue, where visible-was almost completely covered with what may very loosely be called "hangings," meaning a collection of framed photographs, yellowing personal and Presidential correspondence, bronze and silver plaques, and sprawling miscellany of vaguely citational-looking documents and trophylike objects of various shapes and sizes, all attesting, one way or another, to the redoubtable fact that from 1927 through most of 1943 the network radio program called "It's a Wise Child" had very rarely gone on the air without one (and, more often, two) of the seven Glass children among its panelists. (Buddy Glass, who, at thirty-six, was the program's oldest living expanelist, not infrequently referred to the walls of his parents' apartment as being a kind of visual hymn to commerical American childhood and early puberty. He often expressed regret that his visits in from the country were so few and far between, and pointed out, usually at enormous length, how much luckier his brothers and sisters were, most of whom still lived in or around New York City.) The decoration scheme for the walls was, in fact, the brain child-with Mrs. Glass's unreserved spiritual sanction and everlastingly withheld formal consent-of Mr. Les Glass, the children's father, a former international vaudevillian and, no doubt, an inveterate and wistful admirer of the wall decor at <mark>Sardi's theatrical restaurant</mark>[^sardis]. Mr. Glass's perhaps most inspired coup as a decorator was manifest just behind and above the couch where [250] young Franny Glass was now sleeping. There, in almost incestuously close juxtaposition, seven scrapbooks of newspaper and magazine clippings had been bracketed, at the bindings, directly into the plaster. Year after year, plainly, all seven scrapbooks stood ready to be perused or pored over by old close friends of the family and casual visitors alike, as well as, presumably, the odd part-time cleaning woman.

> "I'm not so damned dense about it, but you keep-" "It's us," Zooey repeated, overriding her. "We're freaks, freaks, that's all. Those two bastards got us nice and early and made us into freaks with freakish standards, that's all. We're the Tattooed Lady, and we're never going to have a minute's peace, the rest of our lives, till everybody else is tattooed, too." More than a trifle grimly, he brought his cigar to his mouth and dragged on it, but it had gone out. "On top of everything else," he said immediately, "we've got 'Wise Child' complexes. We've never really got off the goddam air. Not one of us. We don't talk, we hold forth. We don't converse, we expound. At least I do. The minute I'm in a room with somebody who has the usual number of ears, I either turn into a goddam seer or a human hatpin. The Prince of Bores. Last night, for instance. Down at the <mark>San Remo</mark>[^sanremo]. I kept praying that Hess wouldn't tell me the plot of his new script. I knew damn well he had one. I knew damn well I wasn't going to get out of the place without a new script to take home. But I kept praying he'd spare me from an oral preview. He's not stupid. He knows it's impossible for me to keep my mouth shut." Zooey suddenly, sharply, turned around, without taking his foot off the window seat, and picked up, snatched up, a match folder that was on his mother's writing table. He turned back to the window and the view of the school roof and put his cigar into his mouth again-but at once took it out. "Damn him, anyway," he said. "He's so stupid it breaks your heart. He's like everybody else in television. And [262] Hollywood. And Broadway. He thinks everything sentimental is tender, everything brutal is a slice of realism, and everything that runs into physical violence is a legitimate climax to something that isn't even-"

> "Yes, I have an ulcer, for Chrissake. This is Kaliyuga, buddy, the Iron Age. Anybody over sixteen without an ulcer's a goddam spy." He gave the snowman another, more vigorous shake. "The funny part is," he said, "I like Hess. Or at least I like him when he's not shoving his artistic poverty down my throat. At least he wears horrible neckties and funny padded suits in the middle of that frightened, super-conservative, super-conforming madhouse. And I like his conceit. He's so conceited he's actually humble, the crazy bastard. I mean he obviously thinks television's good enough to deserve him and his big, bogus-courageous, 'offbeat' talent-which is a crazy kind of humility, if you feel like thinking about it." He stared at the glass ball till the snowstorm had abated somewhat. "In a way, I sort of like LeSage, too. Everything he owns is the best-his overcoat, [263] his two-cabin cruiser, his son's grades at Harvard, his electric razor, everything. He took me home to dinner once and stopped me in the driveway to ask me if I remembered 'the late <mark>Carole Lombard</mark>[^carolelombard], in the movies.' He warned me I'd get a shock when I met his wife, she was such a dead ringer for Carole Lombard. I suppose I'll like him for that till I die. His wife turned out to be a really tired, bosomy, Persian-looking blonde." Zooey looked around abruptly at Franny, who had said something. "What?" he asked.

> Zooey smoked his cigar in silence for a moment. "What gets me so down about Dick Hess," he said, "what makes me so sad, or furious, or whatever the hell I am, is that the first script he did for LeSage was pretty good. It was almost good, in fact. It was the first one we did on film-I don't think you saw it, you were at school or something. I played a young farmer in it who lives all alone with his father. The boy has a notion that he hates farming, and he and his father have always had a terrible time making a living, so when the father dies, he sells all the cattle and makes big plans to go to the big city to make a living." Zooey picked up the snowman again but didn't give it a shake-merely turned it around, by the pedestal. "It had some nice bits," he said. "After I sell all the cows, I keep going out to the pasture to look for them. And when I go for a farewell walk with my girl, right before I leave for the big city, I keep steering her over toward the empty pasture. Then, when I get to the big city and get a job, I spend all my spare time hanging around the stockyards. Finally, in heavy traffic on the main street in the big city, a car makes a left turn and changes into a cow. I run after it, just as the light changes, and get run over- stampeded." He gave the snowman a shake. "It probably wasn't anything you couldn't watch while you were cutting your toenails, but at least you didn't feel like slinking home from the studio after rehearsals. It was fresh enough, at least, and it was his own, it wasn't part of a hackneyed trend in scripts. I wish to hell he'd go home and fill up again. I wish to hell everybody'd go home. I'm sick to death of being the heavy in everybody's life. God, you should see Hess and LeSage when they're talking [264] about a new show. Or a new anything. They're as happy as pigs till I show up. I feel like those dismal bastards Seymour's beloved <mark>Chuang-tzu</mark>[^chuangtzu] warned everybody against. 'Beware when the so-called sagely men come limping into sight.' " He sat still, watching the snowflakes swirl. "I could happily lie down and die sometimes," he said.

> Franny at that moment was gazing at a sunlit faded spot in the carpet over near the piano, her lips very discernibly moving. "This is all so funny, you can't imagine," she said, with the faintest tremor in her voice, and Zooey looked over at her. Her paleness was emphasized by the fact that she was wearing no lipstick at all. "Everything you're saying brings back everything I was trying to say to Lane on Saturday, when he started digging at me. Right in the middle of Martinis and snails and things. I mean we're not bothered by exactly the same things, but by the same kind of things, I think, and for the same reasons. At least, it sounds that way." Bloomberg just then stood up in her lap and, more like a dog than a cat, began to circle around to find a sleeping position he liked better. Franny absently, yet like a guide, placed her hands gently on his back, and went on speaking. "I actually reached a point where I said to myself, right out loud, like a lunatic. If I hear just one more picky, cavilling, unconstructive word out of you, Franny Glass, you and I are finished-but finished. And for a while I wasn't too bad. For about a whole month, at least, whenever anybody said anything that sounded campusy and phony, or that smelled to high heaven of ego or something like that, I at least kept quiet about it. I went to the movies or I stayed in the library all hours or I started writing papers like mad on Restoration Comedy and stuff like that-but at least I had the pleasure of not hearing my own voice for a while." She shook her head. "Then, one morning-bang, bang, I started up again. I didn't sleep all night, for some reason, and I had an eight-o'clock in French Lit, so finally I just got up and got dressed and made some coffee and then walked around the campus. What I wanted to do was just go for a terribly long ride on my bike, but I was afraid everybody'd hear me taking my bike out of the stand- something always falls-so I just went to the Lit building and sat, I sat and sat, and finally I got up and started writing things [265] from Epictetus all over the blackboard. I filled the whole front blackboard-I didn't even know I'd remembered so much of him. I erased it-thank God!-before people started coming in. But it was a childish thing to do anyway-<mark>Epictetus</mark>[^epictetus] would have absolutely hated me for doing it-but. . ." Franny hesitated. "I don't know. I think I just wanted to see the name of somebody nice up on a blackboard. Anyway, that started me up again. I picked all day. I picked on Professor Fallon. I picked on Lane when I talked to him on the phone. I picked on Professor Tupper. It got worse and worse. I even started picking on my roommate. Oh, God, poor Bev! I started catching her looking at me as if she hoped I'd decide to move out of the room and let somebody halfway pleasant and normal move in and give her a little peace. It was just terrible! And the worst part was, I knew what a bore I was being, I knew how I was depressing people, or even hurting their feelings-but I just couldn't stop! I just could not stop picking." Looking more than a little distrait, she paused just long enough to push downward on Bloomberg's roving hindquarters. "It was the worst of all in class, though," she said with decision. "That was the worst. What happened was, I got the idea in my head-and I could not get it out-that college was just one more dopey, inane place in the world dedicated to piling up treasure on earth and everything. I mean treasure is treasure, for heaven's sake. What's the difference whether the treasure is money, or property, or even culture, or even just plain knowledge? It all seemed like exactly the same thing to me, if you take off the wrapping-and it still does! Sometimes I think that knowledge-when it's knowledge for knowledge's sake, anyway-is the worst of all. The least excusable, certainly." Nervously, and without any real need whatever, Franny pushed back her hair with one hand. "I don't think it would have all got me quite so down if just once in a while-just once in a while-there was at least some polite little perfunctory implication that knowledge should lead to wisdom, and that if it doesn't, it's just a disgusting waste of time! But there never is! You never even hear any hints dropped on a campus that wisdom is supposed to be the goal of knowledge. You hardly ever even hear the word 'wisdom' mentioned! Do you want to hear something funny? Do you want to hear something [266] really funny? In almost four years of college-and this is the absolute truth-in almost four years of college, the only time I can remember ever even hearing the expression 'wise man' being used was in my freshman year, in Political Science! And you know how it was used? It was used in reference to some nice old poopy elder statesman who'd made a fortune in the stock market and then gone to Washington to be an adviser to President Roosevelt. Honestly, now! Four years of college, almost! I'm not saying that happens to everybody, but I just get so upset when I think about it I could die." She broke off, and apparently became rededicated to serving Bloomberg's interests. Her lips now had very little more color in them than her face. They were also, very faintly, chapped.

> "Well, I do, it happens. <mark>Matthew, Chapter Six</mark>[^matthewsix]. I remember it very clearly, buddy. I even remember where I was. I was back in my room putting some friction tape on my goddam hockey stick, and you banged in-all in an uproar, with the Bible wide open. You didn't like Jesus any more, and you wanted to know if you could call Seymour at his Army camp and tell him all about it. And you know why you didn't like Jesus any more? I'll tell you. Because, one, you didn't approve of his going into the synagogue and throwing all the tables and idols all over the place. That was very rude, very Unnecessary. You were sure that [277] <mark>Solomon</mark>[^solomon] or somebody wouldn't have done anything like that. And the other thing you disapproved of-the thing you had the Bible open to-was the lines <mark>'Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them'</mark>[^beholdthefowls]. That was all right. That was lovely. That you approved of. But, when Jesus says in the same breath, 'Are ye not much better than they?'-ah, that's where little Franny gets off. That's where little Franny quits the Bible cold and goes straight to Buddha, who doesn't discriminate against all those nice fowls of the air. All those sweet, lovely chickens and geese that we used to keep up at the Lake. And don't tell me again that you were ten years old. Your age has nothing to do with what I'm talking about. There are no big changes between ten and twenty-or ten and eighty, for that matter. You still can't love a Jesus as much as you'd like to who did and said a couple of things he was at least reported to have said or done-and you know it. You're constitutionally unable to love or understand any son of God who throws tables around. And you're constitutionally unable to love or understand any son of God who says a human being, any human being-even a Professor Tupper-is more valuable to God than any soft, helpless Easter chick."

> "It's beside the point whether I can or not. But, yes, as a matter of fact, I can. I don't feel like going into it, but at least I've never tried, consciously or otherwise, to turn Jesus into <mark>St. Francis of Assisi</mark>[^stfrancisofassisi] to make him more 'lovable'-which is exactly what ninety-eight per cent of the Christian world has always insisted on doing. Not that it's to my credit. I don't happen to be attracted to the St. Francis, of Assisi type. But you are. And, in opinion, that's one of the reasons why you're having this little nervous breakdown. And especially the reason why you're having it at home. This place is made to order for you. The service is good, and there's plenty of hot and cold running ghosts. What could be more convenient? You can say your prayer here and roll Jesus and St. Francis and Seymour and Heidi's grandfather all in [278] one." Zooey's voice stopped, very briefly. "Can't you see that? Can't you see how unclearly, how sloppily, you're looking at things? My God, there's absolutely nothing tenth-rate about you, and yet you're up to your neck at this minute in tenth-rate thinking. Not only is the way you're going at your prayer tenth-rate reHgion but, whether you know it or not, you're having a tenth-rate nervous breakdown. I've seen a couple of real breakdowns, and the people who had them didn't bother to pick and choose the place they-"

> The fresh-paint smell was now quite strong just outside the living room. The hall itself had not yet been painted, but newspapers had been strewn the entire length of the hardwood floor, and Zooey's first step-an indecisive, almost dazed one-left the imprint of his rubber heel on a sports-section photograph of <mark>Stan Musial</mark>[^stanmusial] holding up a fourteen-inch brook trout. On his fifth or sixth step, he barely missed colliding with his mother, who had just come out of her bedroom. "I though you'd gone!" she said. She was carrying two laundered and folded cotton bed-spreads. "I thought I heard the front-" She broke off to take in Zooey's general appearance. "What is that? Perspiration?" she asked. Without waiting for a reply, she took Zooey by the arm and led him-almost swept him, as if he were as light as a broom-into the daylight coming out of her freshly painted bedroom. "It is perspiration." Her tone couldn't have held more wonder and censure if Zooey's pores had been exuding crude oil. ''What in the world have you been doing? You just had a bath. What have you been doing?" [283]

> He closed the door behind him as tightly as possible, and with an expression implying that the absence of a key in the lock met with his disapproval. He gave the room itself scarcely a glance, once he was inside it. Instead, he turned around and deliberately faced a sheet of what had once been snow-white [284] beaverboard that was nailed uncompromisingly to the back of the door. It was a mammoth specimen, very nearly as long and as wide as the door itself. One could have believed that its whiteness, smoothness, and expanse had at one time cried out rather plaintively for India ink and block lettering. Certainly not in vain, if so. Every inch of visible surface of the board had been decorated, with four somewhat gorgeous-looking columns of quotations from a variety of the world's literatures. The lettering was minute, but jet-black and passionately legible, if just a trifle fancy in spots, and without blots or erasures. The workmanship was no less fastidious even at the bottom of the board, near the doorsill, where the two penmen, each in his turn, had obviously lain on their stomachs. No attempt whatever had been made to assign quotations or authors to categories or groups of any kind. So that to read the quotations from top to bottom, column by column, was rather like walking through an emergency station set up in a flood area, where, for example, Pascal had been unribaldly bedded down with Emily Dickinson, and where, so to speak, <mark>Baudelaire's</mark>[^baudelaire] and <mark>Thomas a. Kempis's</mark>[^thomasakempis] toothbrushes were hanging side by side.

> _You have the right to work, but for the work's sake only. You have no right to the fruits of work. Desire for the fruits of work must never be your motive in working. Never give way to laziness, either
> Perform every action with your heart fixed on the Supreme ' Lord. Renounce attachment to the fruits. Be even-tempered [underlined by one of the calligraphers] in success and failure; for it is this evenness of temper which is meant by yoga.
> Work done with anxiety about results is far inferior to work done without such anxiety, in the calm of self-surrender. Seek refuge in the knowledge of Brahman. They who work selfishly for results are miserable._<br/>
> <mark>"Bhagavad Gita."</mark>[^bhagavadgita]
>
> <mark>_It loved to happen._</mark>[^itlovedtohappen]<br/>
> <mark>Marcus Aurelius.</mark>[^marcusaurelius]
>
> _O snail
> Climb Mount Fuji,
> But slowly, slowly!_<br/>
>  <mark>Issa</mark>.[^issa]
>
> _Concerning the Gods, there are those who deny the very existence of the Godhead; others say that it exists, but neither bestirs nor concerns itself nor has forethought for anything. A third party attribute to it existence and forethought, but only for great and heavenly matters, not for anything that is on earth. A fourth party admit things on earth as well as in heaven, but only in general, and not with respect to each individual. A fifth, of whom were Ulysses and Socrates, are those that cry:-
> "I move not without Thy knowledge!_<br/>
> <mark>Epictetus</mark>.[^epictetus]
>
> _The love interest and climax would come when a man and a lady, both strangers, got to talking together on the train going back east.
> "Well," said Mrs. Croot, for it was she, "what did you think of the Canyon?"
> "Some cave," replied her escort.
> "What a funny way to put it!" replied Mrs. Croot. "And now play me something."_<br/>
> <mark>Ring Lardner</mark> ("How to Write Short Stories").[^ringlardner]
>
> _God instructs the heart, not by ideas but by pains and contradictions._<br/>
> <mark>De Caussade</mark>.[^decaussade]
>
> _"Papa!" shrieked Kitty, and shut his mouth with her hands.
> "Well, I won't . . ." he said. "I'm very, very pleased. .. . Oh, what a fool I am...."
> He embraced Kitty, kissed her face, her hand, her face again and made the sign of the cross over her.
> And there came over Levin a new feeling of love for this [286] man, till then so little known to him, when he saw how slowly and tenderly Kitty kissed his muscular hand._<br/>
> <mark>"Anna Karenina."</mark>[^annakarenina]
>
> _"Sir, we ought to teach the people that they are doing wrong in worshipping the images and picture in the temple."
> Ramakrishna: "That's the way with you Calcutta people: you want to teach and preach. You want to give millions when you are beggars yourselves.. . . Do you think God does not know that he is being worshipped in the images and pictures? If a worshipper should make a mistake, do you not think God will know his intent?"_<br/>
> <mark>"The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna."</mark>[^gospelsriramakrishna]
>
> _"Don't you want to join us?" I was recently asked by an acquaintance when he ran across me alone after midnight in a coffeehouse that was already almost deserted. "No, I don't," I said._<br/>
> <mark>Kafka.</mark>[^kafka]
>
> _The happiness of being with people._<br/>
> <mark>Kafka.</mark>[^kafka]
>
> <mark>St. Francis de Sales'</mark> prayer: "Yes, Father! Yes, and always, Yes!"[^stfrancisdesales]
>
> Zui-Gan called out to himself every day, "Master."
> Then he answered himself, "Yes, sir."
> And then he added, "Become sober."
> Again he answered, "Yes, sir."
> "And after that," he continued, "do not be deceived by others."
> "Yes, sir; yes, sir," he replied.<br/>
> <mark>Mu-Mon-Kwan</mark>.[^mumonkwan]

> > Several acts of vaudeville tonight for my entertainment. Les and Bessie did a lovely soft-shoe on sand swiped by Boo Boo from the urn in the lobby. When they were finished, B. and Boo Boo did a pretty funny imitation of them. Les nearly in tears. The baby sang <mark>"Abdual Abulbul Amir."</mark>[^abdualabulbulamir] Z. did the Will Mahoney exit Les taught him, ran smack into the bookcase, and was furious. The twins did B.'s and my old Buck & Bubbles imitation. But to perfection. Marvellous. In the middle of it, the doorman called up on the housephone and asked if anybody was dancing up there. A Mr. Seligman, on the fourth-

> "He said he was-this is exactly what he said-he said he was sitting at the table in the kitchen, all by himself, drinking a glass of ginger ale and eating saltines and reading <mark>'Dombey and Son,'</mark>[^dombeyandson] and all of a sudden Jesus sat down in the other chair and asked if he could have a small glass of ginger ale. A small glass, mind you-that's exactly what he said. I mean he says things like that, and yet he thinks he's perfectly qualified to give me a lot of advice and stuff! That's what makes me so mad! I could just spit! I could! It's like being in a lunatic asylum and having another patient all dressed up as a doctor come over to you and start taking your pulse or something.. . . It's just awful. He talks and talks and talks. And if he isn't talking, he's smoking his smelly cigars all over the house. I'm so sick of the smell of cigar smoke I could just roll over and die."

> "Well, we were. We were. And I'll tell you, buddy. You were good. And when I say good, I mean good. You held that goddam mess up. Even all those sunburned lobsters in the audience knew it. And now I hear you're finished with the theatre forever-I hear things, I hear things. And I remember the spiel you came back with when the season was over. Oh, you irritate me, Franny! I'm sorry, you do. You've made the great startling goddam discovery that the acting profession's loaded with mercenaries and butchers. As I remember, you even looked like somebody who'd just been shattered because all the ushers hadn't been geniuses. What's the matter with you, buddy? Where are your brains? If you've had a freakish education, at least use it, use it. You can say the Jesus Prayer from now till doomsday, but if you don't realize that the only thing that counts in the religious life is defacement, I don't see how you'll ever even move an inch. Detachment, buddy, and only detachment. Desirelessness. <mark>'Cessation from all hankerings.'</mark>[^cessation] It's this business of dewing, if you want to know the goddam truth, that makes an [299] actor in the first place. Why're you making me tell you things you already know? Somewhere along the line-in one damn incarnation or another, if you like-you not only had a hankering to be an actor or an actress but to be a good one. You're stuck with it now. You can't just walk out on the results of your own hankerings. Cause and effect, buddy, cause and effect. The only thing you can do now, the only religious thing you can do, is act. Act for God, if you want to-be God's actress, if you want to. What could be prettier? You can at least try to, if you want to-there's nothing wrong in frying." There was a slight pause. "You'd better get busy, though, buddy. The goddam sands run out on you every time you turn around. I know what I'm talking about. You're lucky if you get time to sneeze in this goddam phenomenal world." There was another, slighter pause. "I used to worry about that. I don't worry about it very much any more. At least I'm still in love with <mark>Yorick's skull</mark>[^yoricksskull]. At least I always have time enough to stay in love with Yorick's skull. I want an honorable goddam skull when I'm dead, buddy. I hanker after an honorable goddam skull like Yorick's. And so do you, Franny Glass. So do you, so do you.. .. Ah, God, what's the use of talking? You had the exact same goddam freakish upbringing I did, and if you don't know by this time what kind of skull you want when you're dead, and what you have to do to earn it-I mean if you don't at least know by this time that if you're an actress you're supposed to act, then what's the use of talking?"


[^fullfranny]: [Franny](http://www.ae-lib.org.ua/salinger/Texts/Franny-en.htm)
[^fullzooey]: [Zooey](http://www.ae-lib.org.ua/texts/salinger__zooey__en.htm)
[^shawn]: "[William Shawn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Shawn) (August 31, 1907  December 8, 1992) was an American magazine editor who edited The New Yorker from 1952 until 1987."
[^christianscience]: "There are key differences between [Christian Science](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_Science) theology and that of other branches of Christianity. In particular, adherents subscribe to a radical form of philosophical idealism, believing that reality is purely spiritual and the material world an illusion. This includes the view that disease is a mental error rather than physical disorder, and that the sick should be treated not by medicine, but by a form of prayer that seeks to correct the beliefs responsible for the illusion of ill health."
[^sappho]: "[Sappho](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sappho) was a prolific poet, probably composing around 10,000 lines. Her poetry was well-known and greatly admired through much of antiquity, and she was among the canon of nine lyric poets most highly esteemed by scholars of Hellenistic Alexandria. Sappho's poetry is still considered extraordinary and her works continue to influence other writers. Beyond her poetry, she is well known as a symbol of love and desire between women, with the English words sapphic and lesbian being derived from her own name and the name of her home island respectively."
[^adonis]: [Adonis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adonis) was the mortal lover of the goddess Aphrodite in Greek mythology. In Ovid's first-century AD telling of the myth, he was conceived after Aphrodite cursed his mother Myrrha to lust after her own father, King Cinyras of Cyprus. Myrrha had sex with her father in complete darkness for nine nights, but he discovered her identity and chased her with a sword. The gods transformed her into a myrrh tree and, in the form of a tree, she gave birth to Adonis. Aphrodite found the infant and gave him to be raised by Persephone, the queen of the Underworld. Adonis grew into an astonishingly handsome young man, causing Aphrodite and Persephone to feud over him, with Zeus eventually decreeing that Adonis would spend one third of the year in the Underworld with Persephone, one third of the year with Aphrodite, and the final third of the year with whomever he chose. Adonis chose to spend his final third of the year with Aphrodite.
[^cytherea]: [Cytherea (Aphrodite)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aphrodite) is an ancient Greek goddess associated with love, beauty, pleasure, passion and procreation. She is identified with the planet Venus, which is named after the Roman goddess Venus, with whom Aphrodite was extensively syncretized. Aphrodite's major symbols include myrtles, roses, doves, sparrows, and swans.
[^rilke]: [Rainer Maria Rilke](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainer_Maria_Rilke) is "widely recognized as one of the most lyrically intense German-language poets". He wrote both verse and highly lyrical prose. Several critics have described Rilke's work as inherently "mystical". His writings include one novel, several collections of poetry and several volumes of correspondence in which he invokes haunting images that focus on the difficulty of communion with the ineffable in an age of disbelief, solitude and profound anxiety. These deeply existential themes tend to position him as a transitional figure between the traditional and the modernist writers.
[^duinoelegies]: [The Fourth Elegy](https://www.poetryintranslation.com/PITBR/German/Rilke.php#anchor_Toc509812218) by Rainer Maria Rilke<br/>
    <br/>
    O trees of life, O when are you wintering?<br/>
    We are not unified. We have no instincts<br/>
    like those of migratory birds. Useless, and late,<br/>
    we force ourselves, suddenly, onto the wind,<br/>
    and fall down to an indifferent lake.<br/>
    We realise flowering and fading together.<br/>
    And somewhere lions still roam. Never knowing,<br/>
    as long as they have their splendour, of any weakness.<br/>
    <br/>
    We, though, while we are intent on one thing, wholly,<br/>
    feel the loss of some other. Enmity<br/>
    is our neighbour. Arent lovers<br/>
    always arriving at boundaries, each of the other,<br/>
    who promised distance, hunting, and home?<br/>
    And when, for the sketch of a moment,<br/>
    a contrasting background is carefully prepared<br/>
    so that we can see it: then this is clear<br/>
    to us. We do not know the contours<br/>
    of feeling, only what forms it from outside.<br/>
    Who has not sat, scared, before his hearts curtain?<br/>
    It drew itself up: the scenery was of Departure.<br/>
    Easy to comprehend. The familiar garden<br/>
    swaying a little: then the dancer appeared.<br/>
    Not him. Enough! However lightly he moves<br/>
    he is in costume, and turns into a citizen,<br/>
    and goes through the kitchen into his house.<br/>
    I dont want these half-completed masks,<br/>
    rather the Doll. That is complete. I will<br/>
    suffer its shell, its wire, its face<br/>
    of mere appearance. Here. I am waiting.<br/>
    Even if the lights go out, even if someone<br/>
    says to me: No more - , even if emptiness<br/>
    reaches me as a grey draught of air from the stage,<br/>
    even if none of my silent forefathers<br/>
    sits by me any more, not one woman,<br/>
    not even the boy with the brown, squinting, eyes.<br/>
    Ill still be here. One can always watch.<br/>
    <br/>
    Am I not right? You, to whom life tasted<br/>
    so bitter, father, tasting mine,<br/>
    that first clouded infusion of my necessities,<br/>
    you kept on tasting, as I grew,<br/>
    and preoccupied by the after-taste<br/>
    of such a strange future, searched my misted gaze <br/>
    you, my father, who since you were dead, have often<br/>
    been anxious within my innermost hopes,<br/>
    and giving up calm, the kingdoms of calm<br/>
    the dead own, for my bit of fate,<br/>
    am I not right? And you women, am I not right,<br/>
    who would love me for that small beginning<br/>
    of love, for you, that I always turned away from,<br/>
    because the space of your faces changed,<br/>
    as I loved, into cosmic space,<br/>
    where you no longer existed......When I feel<br/>
    like waiting in front of the puppet theatre, no,<br/>
    rather gazing at it, so intently, that at last,<br/>
    to balance my gaze, an Angel must come<br/>
    and take part, dragging the puppets on high.<br/>
    Angel and Doll: then theres a play at last.<br/>
    Then what we endlessly separate,<br/>
    merely by being, comes together. Then at last<br/>
    from our seasons here, the orbit<br/>
    of all change emerges. Over and above us,<br/>
    then, the Angel plays. See the dying<br/>
    must realise that what we do here<br/>
    is nothing, how full of pretext it all is,<br/>
    nothing in itself. O hours of childhood,<br/>
    when, behind the images, there was more<br/>
    than the past, and in front of us was not the future.<br/>
    We were growing, its true, and sometimes urged that<br/>
    we soon grew up, half for the sake<br/>
    of those others who had nothing but their grown-up-ness.<br/>
    And were, yet, on our own, happy<br/>
    with Timelessness, and stood there,<br/>
    in the space between world and plaything,<br/>
    at a point that from first beginnings<br/>
    had been marked out for pure event.<br/>
    <br/>
    Who shows a child, just as they are? Who sets it<br/>
    in its constellation, and gives the measure<br/>
    of distance into its hand? Who makes a childs death<br/>
    out of grey bread, that hardens, - or leaves it<br/>
    inside its round mouth like the core<br/>
    of a shining apple? Killers are<br/>
    easy to grasp. But this: death,<br/>
    the whole of death, before life,<br/>
    to hold it so softly, and not live in anger,<br/>
    cannot be expressed.

[^flaubert]: [Gustave Flaubert](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gustave_Flaubert) (12 December 1821  8 May 1880) was a French novelist. Highly influential, he has been considered the leading exponent of literary realism in his country. He is known especially for his debut novel Madame Bovary (1857), his Correspondence, and his scrupulous devotion to his style and aesthetics. The celebrated short story writer Guy de Maupassant was a protg of Flaubert.

[^motjuste]: [mot juste](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/mot_juste): The perfectly appropriate word or phrase for the situation.

[^freud]: [Sigmund Freud](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sigmund_Freud)

[^tolstoy]: [Leo Tolstoy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leo_Tolstoy)

[^dostoevsky]: [Fyodor Dostoevsky](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fyodor_Dostoevsky)

[^shakespeare]: [William Shakespeare](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_Shakespeare)

[^turgenev]: [Ivan Turgenev](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ivan_Turgenev)

[^stendhal]: [Stendhal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stendhal)

[^playboy]: [The Playboy of the Western World](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Playboy_of_the_Western_World) is a three-act play written by Irish playwright John Millington Synge and first performed at the Abbey Theatre, Dublin, on 26 January 1907. It is set in Michael James Flaherty's public house in County Mayo (on the west coast of Ireland) during the early 1900s. It tells the story of Christy Mahon, a young man running away from his farm, claiming he killed his father.

    The locals are more interested in vicariously enjoying his story than in condemning the immorality of his murderous deed, and in fact, Christy's tale captures the romantic attention of the bar-maid Pegeen Mike, the daughter of Flaherty. The play is best known for its use of the poetic, evocative language of Hiberno-English, heavily influenced by the Irish language, as Synge celebrates the lyrical speech of the Irish.

[^wayofthepilgrim]: [The Way of the Pilgrim](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Way_of_a_Pilgrim), or The Pilgrim's Tale is the English title of a 19th-century Russian work, recounting the narrator's journey as a mendicant pilgrim while practising the Jesus Prayer. The pilgrim's travels take him through southern and central Ukraine, Russia, and Siberia. It is unknown if the book is literally an account of a single pilgrim, or if it uses a fictional pilgrim's journey as a vehicle to teach the practice of ceaseless inner prayer and communion with God.[1] The Russian original, or a copy of it, was present at a Mount Athos monastery in Greece in the 19th century, and was first published in Kazan in 1884, under the Russian title that translates as "Candid Narratives of a Pilgrim to His Spiritual Father."

[^thessalonians]: [Thessalonians](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Epistle_to_the_Thessalonians): Paul, speaking for himself, Silas, and Timothy, gives thanks for the news about their faith and love; he reminds them of the kind of life he had lived while he was with them. Paul stresses how honorably he conducted himself, reminding them that he had worked to earn his keep, taking great pains not to burden anyone. He did this, he says, even though he could have used his status as an apostle to impose upon them.

    Paul goes on to explain that the dead will be resurrected prior to those still living, and both groups will greet the Lord in the air.

[^philokalia]: [Philokalia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philokalia) is a "principal spiritual text" for all the Eastern Orthodox Churches.[7] The publishers of the current English translation state that "the Philokalia has exercised an influence far greater than that of any book other than the Bible in the recent history of the Orthodox Church."[8]

[^jesusprayer]: [The Jesus Prayer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesus_Prayer) also known as The Prayer,[b] is a short formulaic prayer esteemed and advocated especially within the Eastern churches: "Lord Jesus Christ, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner."[3] The prayer has been widely taught and discussed throughout the history of the Orthodox Church. The ancient and original form did not include the words, "a sinner", which were added later.[4][5] It is often repeated continually as a part of personal ascetic practice, its use being an integral part of the eremitic tradition of prayer known as Hesychasm.[c] The prayer is particularly esteemed by the spiritual fathers of this tradition (see Philokalia) as a method of opening up the heart (kardia) and bringing about the Prayer of the Heart ( ). The Prayer of the Heart is considered to be the Unceasing Prayer that the Apostle Paul advocates in the New Testament.[d] Theophan the Recluse regarded the Jesus Prayer stronger than all other prayers by virtue of the power of the Holy Name of Jesus.[4]

[^nembutsu]: [Yuzu Nembutsu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yuzu_Nembutsu) is a school of Pure Land Buddhism that focuses on the ritual recitation of the Nembutsu (or Nianfo), the name of the Amitabha Buddha.

[^buddhism]: [Buddhism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buddhism)

[^namuamidabutsu]: [Namu Amida Butsu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nianfo)

[^cloudofunknowing]: [The Cloud of Unknowing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cloud_of_Unknowing) is an anonymous work of Christian mysticism written in Middle English in the latter half of the 14th century. The text is a spiritual guide on contemplative prayer in the late Middle Ages. The underlying message of this work suggests that the way to know God is to abandon consideration of God's particular activities and attributes, and be courageous enough to surrender one's mind and ego to the realm of "unknowing", at which point one may begin to glimpse the nature of God.

[^greatgatsby]: [The Great Gatsby](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Great_Gatsby)

[^tomsawyer]: [Tom Sawyer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_Sawyer)

[^cardinalvirtue]: "Every one suspects himself of at least one of the cardinal virtues, and this is mine: I am one of the few honest people that I have ever known."

[^itsawisechild]: Salinger was almost certainly aware of Telemachus consciously cryptic reply to Athena when she questions him about Odysseus: ["It's a wise child that knows its own father."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/It%27s_a_Wise_Child) This oblique reference to The Odyssey emphasizes the quest for identity on which each of the Glass children has at some point embarked.

[^marybakereddy]: [Mary Baker Eddy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Baker_Eddy) established the Church of Christ, Scientist, as a Christian denomination and worldwide movement of spiritual healers. She wrote and published the movement's textbook, Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures and 15 other books. She started several weekly and monthly magazinesthe Christian Science Sentinel, The Christian Science Journal, and The Herald of Christian Sciencethat feature articles on Christian Science practice and verified testimonies of healing. In 1908, at the age of 87, she founded The Christian Science Monitor, a global newspaper that has won seven Pulitzer Prizes.[1] Eddy's book Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures has been a best seller for decades, and was selected as one of the "75 Books by Women Whose Words Have Changed the World", by the Women's National Book Association.[2] In 1995 Eddy was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame.[3] In 2002, The Mary Baker Eddy Library opened its doors, giving the public access to one of the largest collections about an American woman.[4]

[^yamagodofdeath]: [Yama](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yama) or Yamarja is a god of death, the south direction, and the underworld,[1] belonging to an early stratum of Rigvedic Hindu deities. In Sanskrit, his name can be interpreted to mean "twin".[2] In the Zend-Avesta of Zoroastrianism, he is called "Yima".[3]

    According to the Vishnu Purana, Yama is the son of sun-god Surya[4] and Sandhya, the daughter of Vishvakarma. Yama is the brother of Sraddhadeva Manu and of his older sister Yami, which Horace Hayman Wilson indicates to mean the Yamuna.[5] According to the Vedas, Yama is said to have been the first mortal who died. By virtue of precedence, he became the ruler of the departed,[6] and is called "Lord of the Pitrs".[7]

    Mentioned in the Pli Canon of Theravada Buddhism, Yama subsequently entered Buddhist mythology in East Asia, Southeast Asia and Sri Lanka as a Dharmapala under various transliterations. He is otherwise also called as "Dharmaraja".

[^kibbutz]: [Kibbutz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kibbutz) is a collective community in Israel that was traditionally based on agriculture.

[^upanishads]: [Upanishads](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Upanishads), a part of the Vedas, are ancient Sanskrit texts that contain some of the central philosophical concepts and ideas of Hinduism, some of which are shared with religious traditions like Buddhism and Jainism.[2][3][note 1][note 2] Among the most important literature in the history of Indian religions and culture, the Upanishads played an important role in the development of spiritual ideas in ancient India, marking a transition from Vedic ritualism to new ideas and institutions.[6] Of all Vedic literature, the Upanishads alone are widely known, and their central ideas are at the spiritual core of Hindus.[2][7]

    The Upanishads are commonly referred to as Vednta. Vedanta has been interpreted as the "last chapters, parts of the Veda" and alternatively as "object, the highest purpose of the Veda".[8] The concepts of Brahman (ultimate reality) and tman (soul, self) are central ideas in all of the Upanishads,[9][10] and "know that you are the tman" is their thematic focus.[10][11] Along with the Bhagavad Gita and the Brahmasutra, the mukhya Upanishads (known collectively as the Prasthanatrayi)[12] provide a foundation for the several later schools of Vedanta, among them, two influential monistic schools of Hinduism.[note 3][note 4][note 5]

    More than 200 Upanishads are known, of which the first dozen or so are the oldest and most important and are referred to as the principal or main (mukhya) Upanishads.[15][16] The mukhya Upanishads are found mostly in the concluding part of the Brahmanas and Aranyakas[17] and were, for centuries, memorized by each generation and passed down orally. The early Upanishads all predate the Common Era, five[note 6] of them in all likelihood pre-Buddhist (6th century BCE),[18] down to the Maurya period.[19] Of the remainder, 95 Upanishads are part of the Muktika canon, composed from about the last centuries of 1st-millennium BCE through about 15th-century CE.[20][21] New Upanishads, beyond the 108 in the Muktika canon, continued to be composed through the early modern and modern era,[22] though often dealing with subjects which are unconnected to the Vedas.[23]

    With the translation of the Upanishads in the early 19th century they also started to attract attention from a western audience. Arthur Schopenhauer was deeply impressed by the Upanishads and called it "the production of the highest human wisdom".[24] Modern era Indologists have discussed the similarities between the fundamental concepts in the Upanishads and major western philosophers.[25][26][27]

[^diamondsutra]: [Diamond Sutra](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diamond_Sutra) is a Mahyna (Buddhist) stra from the Prajpramit sutras or 'Perfection of Wisdom' genre. Translated into a variety of languages over a broad geographic range, the Diamond Sutra is one of the most influential Mahayana sutras in East Asia, and is particularly prominent within the Chan (or Zen) tradition,[1] along with the Heart Sutra.

    A copy of the Tang-dynasty Chinese version of the Diamond Stra was found among the Dunhuang manuscripts in 1907 by Daoist monk Wang Yuanlu on June 25, 1900, and sold to Aurel Stein.[2] They are dated back to 11 May 868.[3] It is, in the words of the British Library, "the earliest complete survival of a dated printed book."[4]

[^eckhart]: [Eckhart](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meister_Eckhart) was well known for his work with pious lay groups such as the Friends of God and was succeeded by his more circumspect disciples John Tauler and Henry Suso.[citation needed] Since the 19th century, he has received renewed attention. He has acquired a status as a great mystic within contemporary popular spirituality, as well as considerable interest from scholars situating him within the medieval scholastic and philosophical tradition.[2]

[^johnbarrymore]: [John Barrymore](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Barrymore) was an American actor on stage, screen and radio. A member of the Drew and Barrymore theatrical families, he initially tried to avoid the stage, and briefly attempted a career as an artist, but appeared on stage together with his father Maurice in 1900, and then his sister Ethel the following year. He began his career in 1903 and first gained attention as a stage actor in light comedy, then high drama, culminating in productions of Justice (1916), Richard III (1920) and Hamlet (1922); his portrayal of Hamlet led to him being called the "greatest living American tragedian".[2]

[^mundakaupanishad]: [Mundaka Upanishad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mundaka_Upanishad) is an ancient Sanskrit Vedic text, embedded inside Atharva Veda.[1] It is a Mukhya (primary) Upanishad, and is listed as number 5 in the Muktika canon of 108 Upanishads of Hinduism. It is among the most widely translated Upanishads.[1]

    It is a poetic verse style Upanishad, with 64 verses, written in the form of mantras. However, these mantras are not used in rituals, rather they are used for teaching and meditation on spiritual knowledge.[1]

    The Mundaka Upanishad contains three Mundakams (parts), each with two sections.[2] The first Mundakam, states Roer,[2] defines the science of "Higher Knowledge" and "Lower Knowledge", and then asserts that acts of oblations and pious gifts are foolish, and do nothing to reduce unhappiness in current life or next, rather it is knowledge that frees. The second Mundakam describes the nature of the Brahman, the Self, the relation between the empirical world and the Brahman, and the path to know Brahman. The third Mundakam expands the ideas in the second Mundakam and then asserts that the state of knowing Brahman is one of freedom, fearlessness, complete liberation, self-sufficiency and bliss.[2]

[^zumbeispiel]: for example

[^warandeace]:is a novel by the Russian author Leo Tolstoy. It is regarded as a central work of world literature and one of Tolstoy's finest literary achievements.

    The novel chronicles the history of the French invasion of Russia and the impact of the Napoleonic era on Tsarist society through the stories of five Russian aristocratic families. Portions of an earlier version, titled The Year 1805,[4] were serialized in The Russian Messenger from 1865 to 1867. The novel was first published in its entirety in 1869.[5]

[^wintergarden]: Shubert has owned the [Winter Garden Theatre](http://shubert.nyc/theatres/winter-garden/) longer than any of its other venues. The playhouse occupies the second American Horse Exchange, built by William K. Vanderbilt in 1896, when Longacre (now Times Square) was the center of the horse and carriage trade. By 1911, when the Shuberts leased the Exchange, horses had given way to the automobile and legitimate stage was making inroads north of 42nd St. The Winter Garden was converted into a theatre in 1911, and had brief interludes as a movie house from 1928 to 1933 when Warner Brothers leased it, and again in 1945, when United Artists ran it.

[^miltonberle]: [Milton Berle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milton_Berle) was an American comedian and actor. Berle's career as an entertainer spanned over 80 years, first in silent films and on stage as a child actor, then in radio, movies and television. As the host of NBC's Texaco Star Theater (194855), he was the first major American television star and was known to millions of viewers as "Uncle Miltie" and "Mr. Television" during TV's golden age.

[^governerdewey]: [Thomas E. Dewey](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_E._Dewey) was an American lawyer, prosecutor, and politician. He served as the 47th Governor of New York from 1943 to 1954. In 1944, he was the Republican Party's nominee for President. He lost the 1944 election to President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the closest of Roosevelt's four presidential elections. He was again the Republican presidential nominee in 1948, but lost to President Harry S. Truman in one of the greatest upsets in presidential election history.[1] Dewey played a large role in winning the Republican presidential nomination for Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952, and helped Eisenhower win the presidential election that year.[2] He also played a large part in the choice of Richard M. Nixon as the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 1952 and 1956.[3]

    As a New York City prosecutor and District Attorney in the 1930s and early 1940s, Dewey was relentless in his effort to curb the power of the American Mafia and of organized crime in general. Most famously, he successfully prosecuted Mafioso kingpin Charles "Lucky" Luciano on charges of forced prostitution in 1936. Luciano was given a thirty-year prison sentence. He also prosecuted and convicted Waxey Gordon, another prominent New York City gangster and bootlegger, on charges of tax evasion. Dewey almost succeeded in apprehending Jewish mobster Dutch Schultz as well, but not before Schultz was murdered in 1935 in a hit ordered by The Commission itself.

    Dewey led the moderate or progressive faction of the Republican Party, in which he fought conservative Ohio Senator Robert A. Taft. Dewey was an advocate for the professional and business community of the Northeastern United States, which would later be called the Eastern Establishment. This group consisted of internationalists who were in favor of the United Nations and the Cold War fight against communism and the Soviet Union, and it supported most of the New Deal social-welfare reforms enacted during the administration of Democrat Franklin D. Roosevelt.

[^senatordirksen]: [Everett Dirksen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everett_Dirksen) was an American politician of the Republican Party. He represented Illinois in the United States House of Representatives and the United States Senate. As Senate Minority Leader from 1959 to 1969, he played a highly visible and key role in the politics of the 1960s. He helped write and pass the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Civil Rights Act of 1968, both landmark pieces of legislation during the Civil Rights Movement. He was also one of the Senate's strongest supporters of the Vietnam War. A talented orator with a florid style and a notably rich baritone voice, his flamboyant speeches caused his detractors to refer to him as "The Wizard of Ooze".

[^zsazsagabor]: [Zsa Zsa Gabor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zsa_Zsa_Gabor) was a Hungarian-American actress and socialite. Her sisters were actresses Eva and Magda Gabor.

    Gabor began her stage career in Vienna and was crowned Miss Hungary in 1936.[3] She emigrated from Hungary to the United States in 1941. Becoming a sought-after actress with "European flair and style", she was considered to have a personality that "exuded charm and grace".[4] Her first film role was a supporting role in Lovely to Look At. She later acted in We're Not Married! and played one of her few leading roles in the John Huston-directed film, Moulin Rouge (1952). Huston would later describe her as a "creditable" actress.[5]

    Outside her acting career, Gabor was known for her extravagant Hollywood lifestyle, her glamorous personality, and her many marriages. In total, Gabor had nine husbands, including hotel magnate Conrad Hilton and actor George Sanders. She once stated, "Men have always liked me and I have always liked men. But I like a mannish man, a man who knows how to talk to and treat a womannot just a man with muscles."[6]

[^gayelordhauser]: [Gayelord Hauser](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gayelord_Hauser) popularly known as Gayelord Hauser, was an American nutritionist and self-help author, who promoted the 'natural way of eating' during the mid-20th century. He promoted foods rich in vitamin B and discouraged consumption of sugar and white flour. Hauser was a best-selling author, popular on the lecture and social circuits, and was nutritional advisor to many celebrities.

    Hauser was supported by many film stars but was often in conflict with the medical community.[2] He was criticized as a "food faddist" and his dieting ideas were described by medical doctors as pseudoscientific and quackery.[3][4]

[^georgiejessel]: [George Jessel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Jessel_(actor)) was an American illustrated song "model", actor, singer, songwriter, and film producer. He was famous in his lifetime as a multitalented comedic entertainer, achieving a level of recognition that transcended his limited roles in movies. He was widely known by his nickname, the "Toastmaster General of the United States," for his frequent role as the master of ceremonies at political and entertainment gatherings. Jessel originated the title role in the stage production of The Jazz Singer.[1]

[^charlesoftheritz]: [Charles of the Ritz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_of_the_Ritz) In 1916, hairdresser Charles Jundt took over the Manhattan beauty salon of the New York City Ritz (later the Ritz-Carlton) hotel. He founded his own cosmetics company in 1919, and in 1926, began marketing beauty products under the name "Charles of the Ritz". Perfume was added to this line in 1927.

    In 1932, at the age of 24, Richard B. Salomon was named president of Charles of the Ritz, Inc. Twenty years later, he was elected chairman and chief executive officer. Salomon became known internationally as a businessman, philanthropist and humanitarian. He also served as chancellor of Brown University from 1979-88.

    In 1935, Charles of the Ritz launched the highly successful Jean Nat line of body splashes and fragrance. They later acquired the cosmetics company Alexandra de Markoff.

[^cherryorchard]: [The Cherry Orchard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Cherry_Orchard) is the last play by Russian playwright Anton Chekhov. Written in 1903, it was first published by Znaniye (Book Two, 1904),[1] and came out as a separate edition later that year in Saint Petersburg, via A.F. Marks Publishers.[2] It opened at the Moscow Art Theatre on 17 January 1904 in a production directed by Konstantin Stanislavski. Chekhov described the play as a comedy, with some elements of farce, though Stanislavski treated it as a tragedy. Since its first production, directors have contended with its dual nature. It is often identified as one of the three or four outstanding plays by Chekhov, along with The Seagull, Three Sisters, and Uncle Vanya.[3]

    The play concerns an aristocratic Russian landowner who returns to her family estate (which includes a large and well-known cherry orchard) just before it is auctioned to pay the mortgage. Unresponsive to offers to save the estate, she allows its sale to the son of a former serf; the family leaves to the sound of the cherry orchard being cut down. The story presents themes of cultural futility  both the futile attempts of the aristocracy to maintain its status and of the bourgeoisie to find meaning in its newfound materialism.[citation needed] It dramatises the socio-economic forces in Russia at the turn of the 20th century, including the rise of the middle class after the abolition of serfdom in the mid-19th century and the decline of the power of the aristocracy.

[^annamagnani]: [Anna Magnani](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna_Magnani) was an Italian stage and film actress.[1] She won the Academy Award for Best Actress, along with four other international awards, for her portrayal of a Sicilian widow in The Rose Tattoo.

    Born in Rome,[2] she worked her way through Rome's Academy of Dramatic Art by singing at night clubs. During her career, her only child was stricken by polio when he was 18 months old and remained crippled.

    She was referred to as "La Lupa," the "perennial toast of Rome" and a "living she-wolf symbol" of the cinema. Time magazine described her personality as "fiery", and drama critic Harold Clurman said her acting was "volcanic". In the realm of Italian cinema she was "passionate, fearless, and exciting," an actress that film historian Barry Monush calls "the volcanic earth mother of all Italian cinema."[3] Director Roberto Rossellini called her "the greatest acting genius since Eleonora Duse".[2] Playwright Tennessee Williams became an admirer of her acting and wrote The Rose Tattoo specifically for her to star in, a role for which she received an Oscar in 1955.

    After meeting director Goffredo Alessandrini she received her first screen role in La cieca di Sorrento (The Blind Woman of Sorrento) (1934) and later achieved international fame in Rossellini's Rome, Open City (1945), considered the first significant movie to launch the Italian neorealism movement in cinema.[3] As an actress she became recognized for her dynamic and forceful portrayals of "earthy lower-class women"[4] in such films as L'Amore (1948), Bellissima (1951), The Rose Tattoo (1955), The Fugitive Kind (1960) and Mamma Roma (1962). As early as 1950 Life magazine had already stated that Magnani was "one of the most impressive actresses since Garbo".[5]

[^zenbuddhism]: [Zen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zen) is a school of Mahayana Buddhism that originated in China during the Tang dynasty as the Chan school (Chnzong) of Chinese Buddhism and later developed into various schools. Chn Buddhism was also influenced by Taoist philosophy, especially Neo-Daoist thought.[1] From China, Chn spread south to Vietnam and became Vietnamese Thin, northeast to Korea to become Seon Buddhism, and east to Japan, becoming Japanese Zen.[2]

    The term Zen is derived from the Japanese pronunciation of the Middle Chinese word  (Chn) which traces its roots to the Indian practice of dhyna ("meditation").[note 1] Zen emphasizes rigorous self-control, meditation-practice, insight into the nature of things (Ch. jianxing, Jp. kensho, "perceiving the true nature"), and the personal expression of this insight in daily life, especially for the benefit of others.[4][5] As such, it de-emphasizes mere knowledge of sutras and doctrine[6][7] and favors direct understanding through spiritual practice and interaction with an accomplished teacher.[8]

    The teachings of Zen include various sources of Mahayana thought, especially Yogachara, the Tathgatagarbha stras and the Huayan school, with their emphasis on Buddha-nature, totality, and the Bodhisattva-ideal.[9][10] The Prajpramit literature[11] as well as Madhyamaka thought have also been influential in the shaping of the apophatic and sometimes iconoclastic nature of Zen rhetoric.

[^mahayanabuddhism]: [Mahayana](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mahayana) is one of two main existing branches of Buddhism (the other being Theravada) and a term for classification of Buddhist philosophies and practice. This movement added a further set of discourses, and although it was initially small in India, it had long-term historical significance.[1] The Buddhist tradition of Vajrayana is sometimes classified as a part of Mahyna Buddhism, but some scholars consider it to be a different branch altogether.[2]

    According to the teachings of Mahyna traditions, "Mahyna" also refers to the path of the Bodhisattva seeking complete enlightenment for the benefit of all sentient beings, also called "Bodhisattvayna", or the "Bodhisattva Vehicle".[3][note 1] A bodhisattva who has accomplished this goal is called a samyaksabuddha, or "fully enlightened Buddha". A samyaksabuddha can establish the Dharma and lead disciples to enlightenment. Mahyna Buddhists teach that enlightenment can be attained in a single lifetime, and this can be accomplished even by a layperson.[4]

    The Mahyna tradition is the largest major tradition of Buddhism existing today, with 53% of practitioners, compared to 36% for Theravada and 6% for Vajrayana in 2010.[5]

    In the course of its history, Mahyna Buddhism spread from India to various other South, East and Southeast Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, China, Taiwan, Mongolia, Korea, Japan, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore. Mahayana Buddhism also spread to other South and Southeast Asian countries, such as Afghanistan, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, the Maldives, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Burma, Iran and other Central Asian countries before being replaced by Theravada Buddhism or other religions.[6]

[^satori]: [Satori](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satori) is a Japanese Buddhist term for awakening, "comprehension; understanding".[1] It is derived from the Japanese verb satoru.[2]

    In the Zen Buddhist tradition, satori refers to the experience of kensh,[3] "seeing into one's true nature". Ken means "seeing," sh means "nature" or "essence".[3]

    Satori and kensh are commonly translated as enlightenment, a word that is also used to translate bodhi, prajna and buddhahood.

[^suzuki]: [D. T. Suzuki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D._T._Suzuki) he rendered his name "Daisetz" in 1894;[1] 18 October 1870  12 July 1966[2]) was a Japanese author of books and essays on Buddhism, Zen (Chan) and Shin that were instrumental in spreading interest in both Zen and Shin (and Far Eastern philosophy in general) to the West. Suzuki was also a prolific translator of Chinese, Japanese, and Sanskrit literature. Suzuki spent several lengthy stretches teaching or lecturing at Western universities, and devoted many years to a professorship at tani University, a Japanese Buddhist school.

    He was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1963.[3]

[^arhat]: [Arhat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arhat) as one who has gained insight into the true nature of existence and has achieved nirvana.[1][2] Other Buddhist traditions have used the term for people far advanced along the path of Enlightenment, but who may not have reached full Buddhahood.[3]

    The understanding of the concept has changed over the centuries, and varies between different schools of Buddhism and different regions. A range of views on the attainment of arhats existed in the early Buddhist schools. The Sarvstivda, Kyapya, Mahsghika, Ekavyvahrika, Lokottaravda, Bahurutya, Prajaptivda, and Caitika schools all regarded arhats as imperfect in their attainments compared to buddhas.[4][5][6]

    Mahayana Buddhist teachings urge followers to take up the path of a bodhisattva, and to not fall back to the level of arhats and rvakas.[7] The arhats, or at least the senior arhats, came to be widely regarded[by whom?] as "moving beyond the state of personal freedom to join the Bodhisattva enterprise in their own way".[3]

    Mahayana Buddhism regarded a group of Eighteen Arhats (with names and personalities) as awaiting the return of the Buddha as Maitreya, and other groupings of 6, 8, 16, 100, and 500 also appear in tradition and Buddhist art, especially in East Asia.[8] They can be seen as the Buddhist equivalents of the Christian saints, apostles or early disciples and leaders of the faith.[8]

[^bodhisattvas]: [Bhodisattva](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bodhisattva) is any person who is on the path towards Buddhahood but has not yet attained it.

    In the Early Buddhist schools as well as modern Theravada Buddhism, a bodhisattva (Pali: bodhisatta) refers to anyone who has made a resolution to become a Buddha and has also received a confirmation or prediction from a living Buddha that this will be so.[2]

    In Mahayana Buddhism, a bodhisattva refers to anyone who has generated bodhicitta, a spontaneous wish and compassionate mind to attain Buddhahood for the benefit of all sentient beings.[3]

[^jivanmuktas]: [Jivanmukta](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jivanmukta)  is someone who, in the Advaita Vedanta philosophy of Hinduism, has gained and assimilated infinite and divine knowledge and power and gained complete self-knowledge and self-realisation and attained Kaivalya or Moksha (enlightenment and liberation), thus is liberated with an inner sense of freedom while living and not yet died.[2][3] The state is the aim of moksha in Advaita Vedanta, Yoga and other schools of Hinduism, and it is referred to as Jivanmukti (Liberation or Enlightenment).[4][5][6]A Jivanmukta is also called as Atma-Jnani(Self-Realised) because they are the knowers of their true self(Atman) and the universal self hence also called as Brahma-Jnani. At the end of their lives, Jivanmuktas destroy remaining karmas and attains Paramukti (final liberation) and become Paramuktas. When a Jivanmukta gives his insight to others and teach them about his realisation of the true nature of the ultimate reality (Brahman) and self (Atman) and takes the role of a guru to show the path of Moksha to others, then that Jivanmukta is called as Avadhuta and some Avadhuta also achieves the title of Paramhamsa. When a Rishi (Seer sage) becomes a Jivanmukta then that Rishi is called as Brahmarishi.

    Jivanmukti contrasts with the concept of videhamukti; the latter means "liberation or emancipation after death, in afterlife".[7][8]

[^loatse]: [Laozi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laozi) was an ancient Chinese philosopher and writer.[5] He is the reputed author of the Tao Te Ching,[6] the founder of philosophical Taoism, and a deity in religious Taoism and traditional Chinese religions.
    A semi-legendary figure, Laozi was usually portrayed as a 6th-century BC contemporary of Confucius, but some modern historians consider him to have lived during the Warring States period of the 4th century BC.[7] A central figure in Chinese culture, Laozi is claimed by both the emperors of the Tang dynasty and modern people of the Li surname as a founder of their lineage. Laozi's work has been embraced by both various anti-authoritarian movements[8] and Chinese Legalism.

[^shankaracharya]: [Shankaracharya](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shankaracharya) is a commonly used title of heads of monasteries called mathas in the Advaita Vedanta tradition. The title derives from Adi Shankara, an 8th-century AD reformer of Hinduism. He is honored as Jagadguru, a title that was used earlier only to Krishna.

[^huineng]: [Dajian Huineng](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Huineng) also commonly known as the Sixth Patriarch or Sixth Ancestor of Chan, is a semi-legendary but central figure in the early history of Chinese Chan Buddhism. He was said to have been an uneducated layman who suddenly attained awakening upon hearing the Diamond Sutra. Despite his lack of formal training, he demonstrated his understanding to the fifth patriarch, Daman Hongren, who then supposedly chose Huineng as his true successor instead of his publicly known selection of Yuquan Shenxiu. Twentieth century scholarship revealed that the story of Huineng's Buddhist career was likely invented by the monk Heze Shenhui, who claimed to be one of Huineng's disciples and was highly critical of Shenxiu's teaching. Huineng is regarded as the founder of the "Sudden Enlightenment" Southern Chan school of Buddhism, which focuses on an immediate and direct attainment of Buddhist enlightenment. The Platform Sutra of the Sixth Patriarch (), which is said to be a record of his teachings, is a highly influential text in the East Asian Buddhist tradition.


[^sriramakrishna]: [Ramakrishna Paramahansa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramakrishna) was an Indian Hindu mystic and saint in 19th century Bengal.[6] Ramakrishna experienced spiritual ecstasies from a young age, and was influenced by several religious traditions, including devotion toward the goddess Kali, Tantra (shakta), Vaishnava (bhakti),[7] and Advaita Vedanta. Reverence and admiration for him among Bengali elites led to the formation of the Ramakrishna Mission by his chief disciple Swami Vivekananda.

[^sacredbooksoftheeast]: [Sacred Books of the East](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sacred_Books_of_the_East) is a monumental 50-volume set of English translations of Asian religious texts, edited by Max Mller and published by the Oxford University Press between 1879 and 1910. It incorporates the essential sacred texts of Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Confucianism, Zoroastrianism, Jainism, and Islam.

    All of the books are in the public domain in the United States, and most or all are in the public domain in many other countries.[1] Electronic versions of all fifty volumes are widely available online.

[^salhepatica]: [Sal Hepatica](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sal_Hepatica) is the name of a mineral salt laxative that was produced and marketed by Bristol-Myers from its inception in 1887, becoming its first nationally recognized product in 1903, until 1958. When dissolved in water, it was said to reproduce the taste and effect of the natural mineral waters of Bohemia.[1]

[^pilgrimcontinues]: The book details the gradual spiritual development and struggles of the narrator, and the effect the narrator's spirituality has on those around him. The sequel is entitled [The Pilgrim Continues](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Way_of_a_Pilgrim#Plot) his Way. Translations of both documents were published together in some English editions.

[^fourgreatvows]: [Bodhisattva vows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bodhisattva_vow) is the vow taken by Mahayana Buddhists to liberate all sentient beings. One who has taken the vow is nominally known as a Bodhisattva. This can be done by venerating all Buddhas and by cultivating supreme moral and spiritual perfection, to be placed in the service of others. In particular, Bodhisattvas promise to practice the six perfections of giving, moral discipline, patience, effort, concentration and wisdom in order to fulfill their bodhicitta aim of attaining enlightenment for the sake of all beings.[1] Whereas the Prtimoka vows cease at death, the Bodhisattva vow extends into future lives.

[^valhalla]: [Valhalla](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valhalla) is a majestic, enormous hall located in Asgard, ruled over by the god Odin. Chosen by Odin, half of those who die in combat travel to Valhalla upon death, led by valkyries, while the other half go to the goddess Freyja's field Flkvangr. In Valhalla, the dead join the masses of those who have died in combat known as Einherjar and various legendary Germanic heroes and kings, as they prepare to aid Odin during the events of Ragnark. Before the hall stands the golden tree Glasir, and the hall's ceiling is thatched with golden shields. Various creatures live around Valhalla, such as the stag Eikyrnir and the goat Heirn, both described as standing atop Valhalla and consuming the foliage of the tree Lrar.

    Valhalla is attested in the Poetic Edda, compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, the Prose Edda (written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson), Heimskringla (also written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson) and in stanzas of an anonymous 10th century poem commemorating the death of Eric Bloodaxe known as Eirksml as compiled in Fagrskinna. Valhalla has inspired various works of art, publication titles, and elements of popular culture, and has become a term synonymous with a martial (or otherwise) hall of the chosen dead.

[^freshmanradio]: [1920 Freshman](https://www.radioblvd.com/20sRadio.html) radio.

[^strombergcarlson]: [1932 Stromberg-Carlson](http://www.8-track-shack.com/1932-stromberg-carlson-console-tube-radio-case-p-17579.html) radio.

[^rca]: [1941 R.C.A.](https://radioattic.com/item.htm?radio=1090562) radio.

[^victrola]: [1921 Victrola](https://midwestantiques.wordpress.com/2016/08/25/antique-oak-victrola-with-original-music-cabinet-records-and-needles/) phonograph.

[^dracula]: [Dracula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dracula) is an 1897 Gothic horror novel by Irish author Bram Stoker. It introduced the character of Count Dracula, and established many conventions of subsequent vampire fantasy.[1] The novel tells the story of Dracula's attempt to move from Transylvania to England so that he may find new blood and spread the undead curse, and of the battle between Dracula and a small group of men and a woman led by Professor Abraham Van Helsing.

[^elementarypali]: [Pali](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pali) or Magadhan is a Middle Indo-Aryan language native to the Indian subcontinent. It is widely studied because it is the language of the Pli Canon or Tipiaka, and is the sacred language of some religious texts of Hinduism and all texts of Theravda Buddhism. The earliest archaeological evidence of the existence of canonical Pali comes from Pyu city-states inscriptions found in Burma dated to the mid 5th to mid 6th century CE.[3]

[^boyalliesatthesomme]: [The Boy Allies on the Somme, Or, Courage and Bravery Rewarded](https://books.google.com/books/about/The_Boy_Allies_on_the_Somme_Or_Courage_a.html?id=34EZAAAAYAAJ) novel.

[^boltsofmelody]: [Bolts of Melody](https://www.amazon.com/Bolts-Melody-Emily-Dickinson/dp/0486222993) by Emily Dickinson.

[^scarabmurdercase]: [The Scarab Murder Case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Scarab_Murder_Case) is a classic whodunit written by S. S. Van Dine. In this book, detective Philo Vance's murder investigation takes place in a private home that doubles as a museum of Egyptology, and the solution depends in part on Vance's extensive knowledge of Egyptian history and customs, which enable him to sort through suggestions of godly vengeance and reveal the misdirections perpetrated by the real murderer.

[^idiot]: [The Idiot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Idiot) is a novel by the 19th-century Russian author Fyodor Dostoevsky. It was first published serially in the journal The Russian Messenger in 186869.

    The title is an ironic reference to the central character of the novel, Prince (Knyaz) Lev Nikolayevich Myshkin, a young man whose goodness, open-hearted simplicity and guilelessness lead many of the more worldly characters he encounters to mistakenly assume that he lacks intelligence and insight. In the character of Prince Myshkin, Dostoevsky set himself the task of depicting "the positively good and beautiful man."[1] The novel examines the consequences of placing such a unique individual at the centre of the conflicts, desires, passions and egoism of worldly society, both for the man himself and for those with whom he becomes involved.

[^nancydrewhiddenstaircase]: [The Hidden Staircase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hidden_Staircase) is the second volume in the Nancy Drew Mystery Stories series written under the pseudonym Carolyn Keene, published in 1930 and revised in 1959.[1] The original text was written by Mildred Wirt Benson, and she has said that it is her personal favorite of the Nancy Drew Books she wrote.[2]

    The novel was adapted as a Warner Bros. movie, Nancy Drew and the Hidden Staircase, in 1939. Another adaption of the book from Warner Bros.[3][4] is scheduled for release March 15, 2019.

[^fearandtremlbing]: [Fear and Trembling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fear_and_Trembling) is a philosophical work by Sren Kierkegaard, published in 1843 under the pseudonym Johannes de silentio (John of the Silence). The title is a reference to a line from Philippians 2:12, "...continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling."  itself a probable reference to Psalms 55:5,[1] "Fear and trembling came upon me..." (the Greek is identical).

    Kierkegaard wanted to understand the anxiety[2] that must have been present in Abraham when "God tested [him] and said to him, take Isaac, your only son, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him as a burnt offering on the mountain that I shall show you."[3] Abraham had a choice to complete the task or to refuse to comply to God's orders. He resigned himself to the three-and-a-half-day journey and to the loss of his son. "He said nothing to Sarah, nothing to Eliezer. Who, after all, could understand him, for did not the nature of temptation extract from him a pledge of silence? He split the firewood, he bound Isaac, he lit the fire, he drew the knife."[4] Because he kept everything to himself and chose not to reveal his feelings he "isolated himself as higher than the universal." Kierkegaard envisions two types of people in Fear and Trembling and Repetition. One lives in hope, Abraham, the other lives in memory, The Young Man and Constantin Constantius. He discussed them beforehand in Lectures delivered before the Symparanekromenoi and The Unhappiest Man.[5] One hopes for happiness from something "out there" while the other finds happiness from something in themself. This he brought out in his upbuilding discourse, published on the same date.
    <blockquote>When one person sees one thing and another sees something else in the same thing, then the one discovers what the other conceals. Insofar as the object viewed belongs to the external world, then how the observer is constituted is probably less important, or, more correctly then what is necessary for the observation is something irrelevant to his deeper nature. But the more the object of observation belongs to the world of the spirit, the more important is the way he himself is constituted in his innermost nature, because everything spiritual is appropriated only in freedom; but what is appropriated in freedom is also brought forth. The difference, then, is not the external but the internal, and everything that makes a person impure and his observation impure comes from within. Sren Kierkegaard, Three Upbuilding Discourses, 1843, Hong p. 59-60</blockquote>

    Kierkegaard says, "Infinite resignation is the last stage before faith, so anyone who has not made this movement does not have faith, for only in infinite resignation does an individual become conscious of his eternal validity, and only then can one speak of grasping existence by virtue of faith."[6] He spoke about this kind of consciousness in an earlier book. "There comes a moment in a person's life when immediacy is ripe, so to speak, and when the spirit requires a higher form, when it wants to lay hold of itself as spirit. As immediate spirit, a person is bound up with all the earthly life, and now spirit wants to gather itself together out of this dispersion, so to speak, and to transfigure itself in itself; the personality wants to become conscious in its eternal validity. If this does not happen, if the movement is halted, if it is repressed, then depression sets in."[7] Once Abraham became conscious of his eternal validity he arrived at the door of faith and acted according to his faith. In this action he became a knight of faith.[8] In other words, one must give up all his or her earthly possessions in infinite resignation and must also be willing to give up whatever it is that he or she loves more than God.[9]

[^sardis]: [Sardi's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sardi%27s) is a continental restaurant located at 234 West 44th Street (between Broadway and Eighth Avenue) in the Theater District in Manhattan, in New York City.[1] Known for the hundreds of caricatures of show-business celebrities that adorn its walls, Sardi's opened at its current location on March 5, 1927.

[^sanremo]: [San Remo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_San_Remo) is a luxury, 27-floor, co-operative apartment building in Manhattan located between West 74th Street and West 75th Street, one block north of The Dakota. Opened in 1930, the San Remo is described by Glen Justice of the New York Times as "a dazzling two-tower building with captivating views of Central Park."[1][3] As a housing cooperative, its board has a reputation for "lenient admissions standards" compared to the conservative, old-money boards on the other side of the park.[4]

[^kaliyuga]: [Kali Yuga](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kali_Yuga) in Hinduism is the last of the four stages (or ages or yugas) the world goes through as part of a 'cycle of yugas' (i.e. Mahayuga) described in the Sanskrit scriptures.[1] The other ages are called Satya Yuga, Treta Yuga, and Dvapara Yuga.

    Kali Yuga is associated with the demon Kali (not to be confused with the goddess Kl). The "Kali" of Kali Yuga means "strife", "discord", "quarrel" or "contention".

[^carolelombard]: [Carole Lombard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carole_Lombard) was an American film actress. She was particularly noted for her energetic, often off-beat roles in the screwball comedies of the 1930s. She was the highest-paid star in Hollywood in the late 1930s. She was the third wife of actor Clark Gable.

[^chuangtzu]: [Chuang Tzu (Zhuang Zhou)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zhuang_Zhou) was an influential Chinese philosopher who lived around the 4th century BC during the Warring States period, a period corresponding to the summit of Chinese philosophy, the Hundred Schools of Thought. He is credited with writingin part or in wholea work known by his name, the Zhuangzi, which is one of the foundational texts of Taoism.

[^epictetus]: [Epictetus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epictetus) was a Greek Stoic philosopher. He was born a slave at Hierapolis, Phrygia (present day Pamukkale, Turkey) and lived in Rome until his banishment, when he went to Nicopolis in northwestern Greece for the rest of his life. His teachings were written down and published by his pupil Arrian in his Discourses and Enchiridion.

    Epictetus taught that philosophy is a way of life and not just a theoretical discipline. To Epictetus, all external events are beyond our control; we should accept calmly and dispassionately whatever happens. However, individuals are responsible for their own actions, which they can examine and control through rigorous self-discipline.

[^matthewsix]: [Matthew 6](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_6) is the sixth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. This chapter contains the middle portion of the Sermon on the Mount. It includes the Lord's Prayer.[1]

    The first part, in Matthew 6:1-18, deals with the outward and inward expression of piety, referring to almsgiving, private prayer and fasting.[2] This part of the chapter, sometimes called the "Discourse on Ostentation",[citation needed] goes over the three most important outward expressions of Jewish piety, alms giving, prayer, and fasting. Jesus endorses the standard teachings that these acts are important. Throughout this section he stresses that worship and piety should not be ostentatious, and ideally should be done in secret. He strongly contravenes those who make public displays of their piety, which can be understood as teaching that those who are pious to impress others will only impress people, and will do nothing to impress God.

    Matthew 6:19-34 deals with possessions and the issues of priorities and trust.[2] The first part in Matthew 6:19-24 has three elements about two treasures, two eyes and two masters. The second part in Matthew 6:25-34 deals with trust in God and also has three elements and provides reasons for not being anxious.[2]

[^solomon]: [Solomon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solomon) was, according to the Hebrew Bible, Old Testament,[3] Quran, and Hadiths, a fabulously wealthy and wise king of Israel who succeeded his father, King David.[4] The conventional dates of Solomon's reign are circa 970 to 931 BCE, normally given in alignment with the dates of David's reign. He is described as the third king of the United Monarchy, which would break apart into the northern Kingdom of Israel and the southern Kingdom of Judah shortly after his death. Following the split, his patrilineal descendants ruled over Judah alone.

    According to the Talmud, Solomon is one of the 48 prophets.[5] In the Quran, he is considered a major prophet, and Muslims generally refer to him by the Arabic variant Sulayman, son of David.

[^beholdthefowls]: [Matthew 6:26](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matthew_6:26):
    Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither<br/>
    do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly<br/>
    Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?

[^stfrancisofassisi]: [Saint Francis of Assisi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francis_of_Assisi) was an Italian Catholic friar, deacon and preacher. He founded the men's Order of Friars Minor, the women's Order of Saint Clare, the Third Order of Saint Francis and the Custody of the Holy Land. Francis is one of the most venerated religious figures in history.[3]

[^stanmusial]: [Stan Musial](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stan_Musial) nicknamed Stan the Man, was an American baseball outfielder and first baseman. He spent 22 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) playing for the St. Louis Cardinals, from 1941 to 1944 and 1946 to 1963. Widely considered to be one of the greatest and most consistent hitters in baseball history,[1] Musial was a first-ballot inductee into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1969, and was also selected to the St. Louis Cardinals Hall of Fame in the inaugural class of 2014.

[^baudelaire]: [Charles Baudelaire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Baudelaire) was a French poet who also produced notable work as an essayist, art critic, and pioneering translator of Edgar Allan Poe.

    His most famous work, a book of lyric poetry titled Les Fleurs du mal (The Flowers of Evil), expresses the changing nature of beauty in modern, and rapidly industrializing Paris during the mid-19th century. Baudelaire's highly original style of prose-poetry influenced a whole generation of poets including Paul Verlaine, Arthur Rimbaud and Stphane Mallarm, among many others. He is credited with coining the term "modernity" (modernit) to designate the fleeting, ephemeral experience of life in an urban metropolis, and the responsibility of artistic expression to capture that experience.[2]

[^thomasakempis]: [Thomas  Kempis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_%C3%A0_Kempis) was a German-Dutch canon regular of the late medieval period and the author of The Imitation of Christ, one of the most popular and best known Christian books on devotion. His name means Thomas 'of Kempen', his hometown, and in German he is known as Thomas von Kempen (in Dutch, Thomas van Kempen).[2]

    He was a member of the Modern Devotion, a spiritual movement during the late medieval period, and a follower of Geert Groote and Florens Radewyns, the founders of the Brethren of the Common Life.[3]

[^kafka]: [Franz Kafka](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Franz_Kafka) was a German-speaking Bohemian Jewish novelist and short story writer, widely regarded as one of the major figures of 20th-century literature. His work, which fuses elements of realism and the fantastic,[4] typically features isolated protagonists faced by bizarre or surrealistic predicaments and incomprehensible social-bureaucratic powers, and has been interpreted as exploring themes of alienation, existential anxiety, guilt, and absurdity.[5] His best known works include "Die Verwandlung" ("The Metamorphosis"), Der Process (The Trial), and Das Schloss (The Castle). The term Kafkaesque has entered the English language to describe situations like those in his writing.[6]

    Kafka was born into a middle-class, German-speaking Jewish family in Prague, the capital of the Kingdom of Bohemia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, today the capital of the Czech Republic. He trained as a lawyer, and after completing his legal education was employed by an insurance company, forcing him to relegate writing to his spare time. Over the course of his life, Kafka wrote hundreds of letters to family and close friends, including his father, with whom he had a strained and formal relationship. He became engaged to several women but never married. He died in 1924 at the age of 40 from tuberculosis.

[^bhagavadgita]: [Bhagavad Gita](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhagavad_Gita) often referred to as the Gita, is a 700-verse Sanskrit scripture that is part of the Hindu epic Mahabharata (chapters 2340 of Bhishma Parva).

    The Gita is set in a narrative framework of a dialogue between Pandava prince Arjuna and his guide and charioteer Krishna. At the start of the Dharma Yudhha (righteous war) between Pandavas and Kauravas, Arjuna is filled with moral dilemma and despair about the violence and death the war will cause. He wonders if he should renounce and seeks Krishna's counsel, whose answers and discourse constitute the Bhagadvad Gita. Krishna counsels Arjuna to "fulfill his Kshatriya (warrior) duty to uphold the Dharma" through "selfless action".[web 1][2][note 1] The Krishna-Arjuna dialogue cover a broad range of spiritual topics, touching upon ethical dilemmas and philosophical issues that go far beyond the war Arjuna faces.[1][3][4]

    The Bhagavad Gita presents a synthesis[5][6] of Hindu ideas about dharma,[5][6][7] theistic bhakti,[8][7] and the yogic paths to moksha.[6] The synthesis presents four paths to spirituality  jnana, bhakti, karma, and raja yogas.[8] These incorporate ideas from the Samkhya-Yoga and Vedanta philosophies.[web 1][note 2]

[^itlovedtohappen]: _"Earth loves the rain, the proud sky loves to give it." The whole world loves to create futurity. I say then to the world, "I share your love." Is this not the source of the phrase, "This loves to happen"?_    ,     ,         .       .     , :   ; (The last phrase is quoted in J.D. Salinger's Franny and Zooey as "It loved to happen"; the tense is ambiguous in Greek.) [Wikiquote](https://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Marcus_Aurelius)

[^marcusaurelius]: [Marcus Aurelius](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marcus_Aurelius) called the Philosopher, was a Roman emperor from 161 to 180. He ruled the Roman Empire with his adoptive brother Lucius Verus (who took Verus as a regnal name) until Lucius' death in 169. He was the last of the rulers traditionally known as the Five Good Emperors. He is also seen as the last emperor of the Pax Romana, an age of relative peace and stability for the Empire. His personal philosophical writings, now commonly known as Meditations, are a significant source of the modern understanding of ancient Stoic philosophy. They have been praised by fellow writers, philosophers, and monarchs  as well as by poets and politicians  centuries after his death.

[^issa]: [Kobayashi Issa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kobayashi_Issa) was a Japanese poet and lay Buddhist priest of the Jdo Shinsh sect known for his haiku poems and journals. He is better known as simply Issa (), a pen name meaning Cup-of-tea (lit. "one [cup of] tea"). He is regarded as one of the four haiku masters in Japan, along with Bash, Buson and Shiki  "the Great Four."[3]

    Reflecting the popularity and interest in Issa as man and poet, Japanese books on Issa outnumber those on Buson and almost equal in number those on Bash.[4]

[^ringlardner]: [Ringgold "Ring" Lardner](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_Lardner) was an American sports columnist and short-story writer best known for his satirical writings on sports, marriage, and the theatre. His contemporaries Ernest Hemingway, Virginia Woolf, and F. Scott Fitzgerald all professed strong admiration for his writing.

[^decaussade]: [Jean Pierre de Caussade](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean_Pierre_de_Caussade) was a French Jesuit priest and writer. He is especially known for the work ascribed to him, Abandonment to Divine Providence, and also his work with the Nuns of the Visitation in Nancy, France.

[^annakarenina]: [Anna Karenina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna_Karenina) is a novel by the Russian author Leo Tolstoy, first published in book form in 1878. Many authors consider Anna Karenina the greatest work of literature ever written,[2] and Tolstoy himself called it his first true novel. It was initially released in serial installments from 1873 to 1877 in the periodical The Russian Messenger.

    A complex novel in eight parts, with more than a dozen major characters, it is spread over more than 800 pages (depending on the translation), typically contained in two volumes. It deals with themes of betrayal, faith, family, marriage, Imperial Russian society, desire, and rural vs. city life. The plot centers on an extramarital affair between Anna and dashing cavalry officer Count Alexei Kirillovich Vronsky that scandalizes the social circles of Saint Petersburg and forces the young lovers to flee for Italy in a futile search for happiness. Returning to Russia, their lives further unravel.

[^gospelsriramakrishna]: [The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gospel_of_Sri_Ramakrishna) translated by Swami Nikhilananda is an English translation of the Bengali religious text Sri Sri Rmakrishna Kathmrita. The text records conversations of Ramakrishna with his disciples, devotees, and visitors, recorded by Mahendranath Gupta, who wrote the book under the pseudonym of "M."[1] The first edition was published in 1942.

    Swami Nikhilananda worked with Margaret Woodrow Wilson, daughter of President Woodrow Wilson. Margaret helped the swami to refine his literary style into "flowing American English". The mystic hymns were rendered into free verse by the American poet John Moffitt. Wilson and American scholar Joseph Campbell helped edit the manuscript.[1][2] Swami Nikhilananda wrote that he had written an accurate translation[3] of the Kathamrita, "omitting only a few pages of no particular interest to English-speaking readers"[1] and stating that "often literary grace has been sacrificed for the sake of literal translation."[1]

[^stfrancisdesales]: [Saint Franis de Sales](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francis_de_Sales) was a Bishop of Geneva and is honored as a saint in the Catholic Church. He became noted for his deep faith and his gentle approach to the religious divisions in his land resulting from the Protestant Reformation. He is known also for his writings on the topic of spiritual direction and spiritual formation, particularly the Introduction to the Devout Life and the Treatise on the Love of God.

[^mumonkwan]: [The Gateless Barrier](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gateless_Barrier) sometimes inaccurately translated as The Gateless Gate, is a collection of 48 Chan (Zen) koans compiled in the early 13th century by the Chinese Zen master Wumen Huikai (; Japanese: Mumon Ekai; 11831260). The title has a double meaning and can also be understood as Wumen's Barrier; the compiler's name, which literally means "No Gate", is the same as the title's first two characters. Wumen's preface indicates that the volume was published in 1228. Each koan is accompanied by a commentary and verse by Wumen. A classic edition includes a 49th case composed by Anwan (pen name for Cheng Ch'ing-Chih) in 1246. Wu-liang Tsung-shou also supplemented the volume with a verse of four stanzas composed in 1230 about the three checkpoints of Zen master Huanglong. These three checkpoints of Huanglong should not be confused with Doushuai's Three Checkpoints found in Case 47.

    Along with the Blue Cliff Record and the oral tradition of Hakuin Ekaku, The Gateless Gate is a central work much used in Rinzai School practice. Five of the koans in the work concern the sayings and doings of Zhaozhou; four concern Ummon.

    The common theme of the koans of the Wumen Guan and of Wumen's comments is the inquiry and introspection of dualistic conceptualization. Each koan epitomizes one or more of the polarities of consciousness that act like an obstacle or wall to the insight. The student is challenged to transcend the polarity that the koan represents and demonstrate or show that transcendence to the Zen teacher.


[^abdualabulbulamir]: [Abdual Abulbul Amir](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abdul_Abulbul_Amir):
    Oh, the sons of the Prophet are hardy and grim<br/>
    And quite unaccustomed to fear<br/>
    But none were so reckless of life or of limb<br/>
    As Abdulla Bulbul Ameer.<br/>
    When they wanted a man to encourage the van<br/>
    Or to harass the foe in the rear<br/>
    Or to take a redoubt they would always send out<br/>
    For Abdulla Bulbul Ameer.<br/>
    <br/>
    There are heroes in plenty, and well known to fame<br/>
    In the ranks that were led by the Czar,<br/>
    But the bravest of all was a man by the name<br/>
    Of Ivan Potschjinski Skidar.[A]<br/>
    He could imitate Toole, play Euchre and Pool<br/>
    And perform on the Spanish guitar.<br/>
    In fact quite the cream of the Muscovite team<br/>
    Was Ivan Potschjinski Skidar.<br/>
    <br/>
    One morning the Russian had shouldered his gun<br/>
    And assumed his most truculent sneer<br/>
    And was walking down town when he happened to run<br/>
    Into Abdulla Bulbul Ameer.<br/>
    "Young man," says Bulbul, "can your life be so dull<br/>
    That you're anxious to end your career?<br/>
    For, infidel, knowyou have trod on the toe<br/>
    Of Abdulla Bulbul Ameer.<br/>
    <br/>
    Take your ultimate look upon sunshine and brook,<br/>
    Make your latest remarks on the war;<br/>
    Which I mean to imply you're going to die,<br/>
    Mr. Count Cask-o-whisky Cigar."<br/>
    Said the Russian, "My friend, my remarks in the end<br/>
    Would avail you but little, I fear,<br/>
    For you'll never survive to repeat them alive,<br/>
    Mr. Abdulla Bulbul Ameer."<br/>
    <br/>
    Then the bold Mameluke drew his trusty chiboque<br/>
    And shouted "Il Allah Akbar"<br/>
    And being intent upon slaughter, he went<br/>
    For Ivan Potschjinski Skidar.<br/>
    But just as his knife had abstracted his life<br/>
    (In fact he was shouting "Huzza!")<br/>
    He felt himself struck by that subtle Calmuck,<br/>
    Count Ivan Potschjinski Skidar.<br/>
    <br/>
    The Consul drove up in his red-crested fly<br/>
    To give the survivor a cheer,<br/>
    He arrived just in time to exchange a goodbye<br/>
    With Abdulla Bulbul Ameer.<br/>
    And Skobeleff, Gourko and Gorsechekoff too<br/>
    Drove up on the Emperor's car<br/>
    But all they could do was cry "och-whilliloo!"<br/>
    With Ivan Potschjinski Skidar.<br/>
    <br/>
    There's a grave where the waves of the Blue Danube roll,<br/>
    And on it in characters clear<br/>
    Is: "Stranger, remember to pray for the soul<br/>
    Of Abdulla Bulbul Ameer."<br/>
    A Muscovite maiden her vigil doth keep<br/>
    By the light of the true lover's star<br/>
    And the name that she murmurs so sadly in sleep<br/>
    Is Ivan Potschjinski Skidar.

[^dombeyandson]: [Dombey and Son](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dombey_and_Son) is a novel by English author Charles Dickens. It follows the fortunes of a shipping firm, whose owner is frustrated at not having a son to follow him in the job, and initially rejects his daughters love, eventually becoming reconciled with her before his death. The story features many Dickensian themes, such as arranged marriages, child cruelty, betrayal, deceit, and relations between people from different classes. The novel was first published in monthly parts between 1846 and 1848, with illustrations by Hablot Knight Browne ('Phiz').

[^cessation]: [Four Nobel Truths](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_Noble_Truths) are "the truths of the Noble Ones",[1] the truths or realities which are understood by the "worthy ones" who have attained nirvana. The truths are: dukkha, "incapable of satisfying," painful; samudaya, the "origin" of dukkha in, or "arising" of dukkha together with tanha ("thirst", desire, craving); nirodha, "cessation" of dukkha by "confinement" of tanha; and marga, the path leading to confinement of tanha and cessation of dukkha.[3] They are traditionally identified as the first teaching given by the Buddha.

    In the sutras, Buddhist religious texts, the four truths have both a symbolic and a propositional function.[5] Symbolically, they represent the awakening and liberation of the Buddha, but also the possibility of liberation for all sentient beings, describing how release from craving is to be reached.[6] As propositions, the Four Truths are one of several conceptual frameworks that appear in the Pali canon scriptures as part of a broader "network of teachings",[7] (the "dhamma matrix")[8] which have to be taken together.[7] They provide a conceptual framework for introducing and explaining Buddhist thought, which has to be personally understood or "experienced".

    As a proposition, the four truths defy an exact definition, but refer to and express the basic orientation of Buddhism:[12] unguarded sensory contact gives rise to craving and clinging to impermanent states and things,[13] which are dukkha,[14] "incapable of satisfying"[web 2] and painful.[13][15][16] This craving keeps us caught in samsara,[note 3] the endless cycle of repeated bhava ("becoming") and jti (literally: "birth", interpreted as rebirth, but also as birth of the ego),[17][18] and the continued dukkha that comes with it.[note 4] There is a way to end this cycle,[19][note 5] namely by attaining nirvana, cessation of craving, whereafter birth and the accompanying dukkha will no longer arise again.[note 6][20] This can be accomplished by following the eightfold path,[note 1] confining our automatic responses to sensory contact by restraining oneself, cultivating discipline and wholesome states, and practicing mindfulness and dhyana (meditation).[21][22]

    The function of the four truths, and their importance, developed over time, when prajna, or "liberating insight", came to be regarded as liberating in itself,[23][10] instead of or in addition to the practice of dhyana.[23] This "liberating insight" gained a prominent place in the sutras, and the four truths came to represent this liberating insight, as part of the enlightenment story of the Buddha.[24][25]

    The four truths became of central importance in the Theravada tradition of Buddhism,[26][27] which holds to the idea that insight into the four truths is liberating in itself.[28] They are less prominent in the Mahayana tradition, which sees the higher aims of insight into sunyata, emptiness, and following the Bodhisattva path as central elements in their teachings and practice.[29] The Mahayana tradition reinterpreted the four truths to explain how a liberated being can still be "pervasively operative in this world".[30] Beginning with the exploration of Buddhism by western colonialists in the 19th century and the development of Buddhist modernism, they came to be often presented in the west as the central teaching of Buddhism.[31][32]

[^yoricksskull]: [Yorick](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yorick) is a character in William Shakespeare's play Hamlet. He is the dead court jester whose skull is exhumed by the First Gravedigger in Act 5, Scene 1, of the play. The sight of Yorick's skull evokes a reminiscence by Prince Hamlet of the man, who apparently played a role during Hamlets upbringing:

    <blockquote>Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio; a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy; he hath borne me on his back a thousand times; and now, how abhorred in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those lips that I have kissed I know not how oft. Where be your gibes now? Your gambols? Your songs? Your flashes of merriment, that were wont to set the table on a roar? (Hamlet, V.i)</blockquote>

    It is suggested that Shakespeare may have intended his audience to connect Yorick with the Elizabethan comedian Richard Tarlton, a celebrated performer of the pre-Shakespearian stage, who had died a decade or so before Hamlet was first performed.



